<video_id>rkbNCgSpsqw</video_id>
<video_title>War photographers break down 'Civil War' and share insights into their profession | DW Analysis</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>es_DW\War photographers break down 'Civil War' and share insights into their profession  DW Analysis.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240509</publish_date>

<doc>
A fractured United States is at war with itself. That's the premise of Alex Garland's Civil War, number one at the US box office. A bit weird, considering its unusual heroes. War photographers, someone said, don't make it about journalists. Everybody hates journalists. Now. Journalism can't end the civil war, but if it fails, the movie seems to say one is more likely to start. We don't ask. We record, so other people ask. It's an imaginary scenario, but it looks disturbingly real. So I talked about it with some of today's most important war photographers, incredible people who filmed real wars, assassinations and genocides that have been shot, bombed, kidnapped. That's coming from someone who's been kidnapped twice. I was not able to stop people from being executed. Some of them are risking their lives right now. So how does their job actually look like? And how accurate is the movie? Just a quick warning, we are going to discuss details from the movie, so expect spoilers. And we're also going to look at war photos, so expect images of violence. So did you like the movie? Yeah, I like the movie. Powerful and unsettling. Kirsten Dunst did an incredible job. One of the things that was so realistic about the film were these summerly executions that happened so fast with no conversation. The relationship between the more experienced photographer and the younger photographer, the fragility of life and how people can go from living to dead in seconds. The monotony of sort of driving through a war zone you're planning with your fixer or the reporter you happen to be working with. Any anyone of your team, a driver. Everything is more intense and so relationships evolve at a faster rate. Having been a photographer working on January 6, being inside the Capitol, there's some remnants and and some similarities. They got a lot right, and that's more than most films do when it comes to photojournalists. There were some certain things that did not make sense. We're talking about Hollywood, right? We're talking about very violent film. It's not that realistic that journalists are given that front row seat to violence right off the bat. There are times when we're wearing flak jackets and helmets. Other times we're not without any kind of rhyme or reason. She has her sort of breakdown at the end of the movie while she's still on assignment. I don't think that's when you would fall apart as a very experienced war photographer. I think that that would obviously happen during the quiet moments back at home. The fact that there was number medical kit, there was number effort to even stop the bleeding. They didn't really give the characters time. To converse with civilians. But one of the biggest things, of course, is that if there's a siege on the White House, that there are only four or five journalists there. In today's day and age with everybody that has a phone, everybody that has a camera seems literally impossible. OK, now let's zoom in on five scenes of the movie from beginning to end so I can ask you how realistic they are and use them to talk about war photography in general. We are towards the beginning of the movie and Lee the experienced journalist meets for the first time Jesse, the aspiring photographer and saves our life from a suicide bombing. Unfortunately I cannot show the next part of the clip because it's not in the promotional material. We'll have to get ingenious with the whole video in that sense, but I have a picture right here and I'll send it to you as well. But in any case. Immediately after the bomb went off. While this is still shocked, Lee is already photographing the dead bodies littering the road. So. How realistic is that? Would you go out and shoot pictures in a situation like that? I photographed a suicide bombing years ago. Former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto was assassinated by a suicide bomber who also shot her with a pistol. And I was very close to the vehicle when that happened. She was waving from an open armored car and I saw the panic in the drivers, her driver's eye. So I backed up and from the moment. I noticed that problem where I was about I don't know, a couple yards away from the vehicle to when the explosion happened was only 10 seconds and so and so I moved back and and it saved me because I followed some intuition and after that explosion I was pushed back in a in a Stampede. But then I had the choice which is the choice that you see in the film of going in and continuing working or just calling it a day and and I made that choice to to go in and photograph. What I can see in the distance, and so would I do that again today? I'm not sure. And why is that? Because as we've seen in in Ukraine, we saw it in Syria, we see it in in Gaza as well. It's it's called the double tap. When there is a bomb that comes in or an air strike or a suicide bombing, people like photojournalists and 1st responders go in and then the second one happens. That's incredible. Can you share? That's really incredible. Can you share more episodes like that? I'd really like our viewers to know. What risks you have taken? So is there any moment that stands out or you thought, why the hell am I doing this job now? I would say when I was kidnapped in Libya in 2011 during the popular uprising, you know, for about a week it was unclear whether we would survive. We were. I was taken hostage with three colleagues from the New York Times, so Tyler Hicks, Anthony Shadid and Steve Farrell. Right. Sort of. At the moment of our kidnapping, we were put on the ground execution style, with each one of us had a gun to our head and they were about to execute us. And I think in that moment, I was pretty sure that I would not survive. And I didn't say in that moment I would quit. But I definitely asked myself, like, wow, I really need to ask myself why I'm here and like why I'm risking my life because my family, you know, I thought of my parents in that moment, and I thought, what will they think when they hear their daughters been killed in Ajdabiya, a place in Libya that no one's ever heard of at the end of that when we were finally released. You know, ironically, I never said I'm quitting. I've been taking prisoner a number of times. I've had governments have to negotiate for my release. Any, any risky moment that stood out? Not really, because there have been so many different moments. I've documented over 25 conflicts. I worked in over 100 countries. People often ask, oh, where was the most dangerous? What was the most close to this or close to that I've been. Very blessed, very lucky not to have been injured, obviously not to have been killed. Many of my colleagues have unfortunately suffered the ultimate sacrifice and these situations whether it could be. A bullet going by too closely, shrapnel landing too closely. All these different things that they they are part of the risks that come along depending on the situation. Why do you take such risks? I mean, I understand a soldier fighting for his country, but why? Why do you go to so many countries to different wars and different wars in many countries? So why does one decide to risk their life over and over again? The interest and fascination and violence and war, it's it's you know that's one of those things that that that I that there I have no answer to like objectively speaking I find the interest strange. A bit off putting. Kind of messed up on some level, like why be attracted and dedicate my life to the very thing that most people are trying to get away from? Why volunteer to do this thing? Why do it over and over again? Why do it for decades? Why do it after friends die? Why do it after being hurt? Why do it after like mentally being scarred? It doesn't. It makes no sense. So the answer to your question is that I that I have no answer because it makes no sense. It's just it's who I am, you know and and you have to be who you are on some level. But we would be remiss to not talk about the fact that no international journalists are allowed to report from Gaza. It is the only war in history where fought by a democratic country where journalists are not allowed in. I think the statistics show that journalists have been targeted now more than ever. I think. I think it's incredibly important to talk about the fact that journalists are also targeted with impunity and no one ever gets taken to task. No one ever gets convicted of killing a journalist. Personally, I believe it should be a war crime, but I, you know, that's coming from someone who's been kidnapped twice and and you know, and once by forces loyal to Gaddafi when he was still in power. Because they didn't like our coverage. And that's really important because a lot of these journalists are being killed because governments don't want their coverage to get out. And so I think that that's very important to understand why journalists are being killed, because it's to censor and it's to stop people from getting coverage. And Gaza, more journalists have been killed than any other war in history, almost 100 journalists between Gaza, Israel and Lebanon, and a majority of them, of course, in Gaza. So it's important to talk about, Yeah, we actually managed to get in touch with someone there to get their perspective. Well, obviously not on the movie, but on the general topics we're covering here. Let's just ask him if you can tell me a bit about yourself, Mohammed, where are you from? Are you from Gaza? Or if not, how did you end up there? Are you safe? When I pick up a couple of. Like in a Sabbath party. Leila. You you risk your life even more to take these photos. Why? Say no. Men and Alfano Satosh. It can fit us idea to Heiko Maserati rule land Alfayoum Telrato machine or washing hatta de la Habra. Going back to the movie, in in many distressing situations like the suicide bombing, Lee looks jaded and Carlos. I feel like it's a bit like the images they put on cigarette packages with rotting lungs and limbs and all the horrible things that smoking dust to your body. First time they are horrifying, but then, yeah, they're still disgusting. But you can't. You get a little used to it. So do you think that that also happens to your photos? And do you think that happens to you? Do you become callous? This is a complicated question. So it's a good one. It's a good one. Yeah, it is a good one. You're asking very good questions, actually, you know, so for someone who's just discovered the topic, you've done your research. And. I don't feel. I don't feel desensitized at all. In a weird way, I feel more sensitive than I used to. I'm speaking for myself, you know, maybe others. Lindsay. Lindsay said the same, by the way, earlier in my career, anyhow, you know, I was, you know, when I was in my early 20s. I don't know how old you. How old are you, by the way? I'm 3232, OK? I mean, if you remember being in your early 20s, you know you're at least for me. I was more wrapped up in myself, my own ambitions, my own insecurities. There was a lot of noise inside my head. Getting in the way of honestly confronting my emotions, We're also, you know, men in a society that doesn't always, that often doesn't encourage men to be honest with their emotions. So you know the the passage of so So in a weird way when I was seeing more violence, I was less sensitive to it because of all the noise in my head now. You know, thanks to thanks to time, thanks to age, thanks to therapy, thanks to, you know, family, mind altering psychedelics, thanks to family, thanks to all sorts of things. You know, I have to be honest about what all the various qualities that go into it. I mean, I think, you know, thanks to family, thanks to love, thanks to friendship, you know, all these things make one much more sensitive. And you know, ironically, I don't know if that makes me a better photographer on some level. Perhaps it makes me a worse photographer because I'm not. I don't have the stamina I used to have. I don't have the I can't be. As unflinching as that used to be, I think that's one of the things about Civil War that I found a little problematic because I felt, I felt, you know, I think Kirsten Dunst did a great job of being a war photographer. And look, there are a lot of war photographers who are totally stoic, but I personally could not relate to her stoicism because I'm a very emotional person. I'm I'm the kind of person who feels what I see and what I photograph. And yes, I have the camera sort of as a as a divider between me and what's going on. And I I continue to, you know, do my work. But I would say it's not to say when I get in the car, when I get home to edit, I'm not emotional. I think that over time I have become more sensitive to people I photographed because in some cases I see what happens to them years later. Right. I I, I not very often but once in a while and and I realized that these things that I document, these little pieces of history are just a moment for me and my camera, sometimes much more than that. But for these folks it's it's a change in their life that they'll they'll never have again the life that they had before and what comes next will never be the same. And I'm also thinking about things which are kind of mundane to mention. I'm thinking about whether I have the thing in focus. whether my camera got bumped, the settings got bumped and everything is under exposed. I'm thinking about things like that and that that keeps us hyper focused in that moment. And so when there's a really emotional traumatic situation happening, usually it's not affecting us then it affects us later on. And in my personal case, it's often when I'm editing the photographs either later that day or the next day. What it's like? Every time I survived a war song, I thought I was sending a warning home. Don't do that. But here we are. There's a moment when Lee seems to have an existential crisis, despite all the photos of all the horrors in other countries. People don't seem to have learned the lesson, and here they are covering a civil war in the US. So does Lee's resignation ring true? Do you ever lose faith in your photos? Wish it were sufficient to end war. But the forces that provoke wars are not the same forces that usually lead people to want to document them, you know, and there are many kinds of humans out there, and all you need is. A very, you know, a few powerful, charismatic ones that want to create their place in history or expand their country's territories or resources, and they can manipulate enormous numbers of people. So I I I don't think. That photographs and evidence of war on their own are ever enough to end war. Or they would have. I mean, what more could we possibly need to see to convince us of the grotesqueness of it? At a certain point, how many pictures of guys shooting at each other can you possibly take? So but I do think it's important. You know, we all play our small role in society. Ron, you covered 3 genocides. Rwanda, Bosnia, the four. So I'm wondering, do you do you recognize yourself in this scene? I mean never again. Must sound like a farce to you. Is is it definitely an American, but possibly more just Western attitude that it's either all or nothing? If the work that we do doesn't stop the war, doesn't stop another war from happening. Therefore the work has failed. And yes, I think that's a legitimate conversation to have, but in reality based on my own experiences with my own work and having done this for so long and seen the impact of the work on. On the audience. But more specifically on the people in the photographs, or people that are related to people in the photographs, or foreign policy or other things that the work can actually affect change, but maybe not in the grand way we want. But I took, I took a photograph in Darfur during the crisis there of a young girl about to go get firewood, risk her life. Trying not to get to rape, to get firewood, for a family to cook food and so on. And. And the photograph was used by Amnesty International, by UNICEF to raise money, to raise awareness, and so on for programming for food, other things that would go back to Darfur. Whether or not that specific girl was ever directly helped as part of that, I'm not sure I tried to find her. I wasn't able to, but. The photograph helped people, for example, during the war, early days of the war in Ukraine and in March of 2022, when Putin was repeatedly saying he would not target civilians and that he was, you know, only targeting combatants. And. And then I was in a mortar attack that almost killed me and it killed a family in front of me. And and you know, I made a photograph in that moment, and the New York Times chose to run that photograph on the front page. And that photo was used not only by the US ambassador to the United Nations, but it was used. Sort of worldwide to show that in fact Russian troops were targeting Ukrainian civilians because it was a known civilian evacuation route. It didn't stop the war, but it certainly brought worldwide awareness and it certainly brought brought more backing to Ukraine and making sure that Ukraine was getting the weapons it needed to defend itself. And so I think, I think we can affect policy. I still believe that. Well, there was a time, years ago when I was covering the Iraq war. Goal was to educate the public so that they could make, they could make rational decisions when they went to vote in the next presidential election. Well, as it turned out, the Iraq War did not matter as much to as Americans that as I thought it would and and it didn't really affect the election at all. And so sometimes we have to realize that what's important to us as photojournalists in the field, what's things that are so important that we're willing to even risk our lives. Might not be important to others back home. Who? And that's that's a tough thing to realize. And and so ever since then I consider it my goal not necessarily to change the government policy, although that would be nice sometimes. My goal really is to educate folks on what's happened. It's not. And it's not only about change, right? It's about keeping a record. This is what other photographers told me. You're keeping a record. And with that can come accountability. Absolutely. I think like when we we go back to let's say go back to World War 2, go back to the Holocaust, when Churchill Roosevelt were asked why didn't you bomb the railroad tracks, why didn't you do this to save the Jews and so on. The response was quite easy. We didn't know, so we didn't we didn't do it. You Fast forward to Rwanda in 94 Bosnia the same time period with President Clinton in the United States helmet Cole Mitterrand and so on. CNN is going live. From Sarajevo. The the day in, day out of footage of of the of the genocide in Rwanda, people Kofi Annan couldn't say, oh, we didn't know from the UN It's like, yes, you did know. You chose to ignore it and you need to be held accountable for it. No international journalists are allowed in Gaza, so your photos are essential to document what's happening. Do you think they can also bring change? Oh man. My fellow Phil Otfal, My fellow Finley, Sir. My fellow film, Water in my fellow. Help you folks just looking for gas 300 for half a tank and two cans. 300 buys you a sandwich. We got ham or cheese. 300 Canadian. OK, and then what happens is that Jesse steps out of the car and walks around the corner and she seems attracted by something horrific she has glimpsed. It's two men hanging from the wrists, covered in blood and. I want to ask something about that attraction. It's it's a very difficult question to ask and maybe it's a bit offensive and naive, but I'm going to try anyway. Here's the thing. You take beautiful pictures of horrible things. Is there something attractive about horror? A bit. A bit like when there's a car accident and you know that there's traffic also because people slow down when they pass by. Because they want to look. So is there something seducing in horror? I do think horror and beauty are much closer to one another than we'd like to think or imagine. No, I absolutely agree. I think my aesthetic is very deliberate. It's essentially it's it's a seduction of using the aesthetics, color, composition, light, to have an emotional connection between the viewer and the image. Even if it's something very difficult, because I want you to not be able to look away and then when you can't look away, you understand the content. People are dying violent deaths all the time. These violent deaths are are recorded all the time, by film, by by photographs, by eyewitnesses. What is to distinguish one death from another and using the traffic accident thing is perfect, right? Like, oh, that could have been me. Let's see, let's see what happened. Oh, maybe I can tell what they did wrong. So I don't do it wrong or just this sort of fascination of how what happens when things go completely wrong. And I think it's and the movie too, right. Like we are watching apocalyptic movies. Literally. Yeah. I think exactly like this is. And I think that this, the film is in some ways, you know, a bit of a warning for not just the United States but for for many countries on on what could go wrong. So I do try to make pictures beautiful. Even when they're in ghastly situations. Now, granted, I try to I try not to include gore in my pictures, and I try to photograph people in a way that's respectful to them. I don't want people to look look ridiculous when they're in a traumatic situation. It's not my goal to to make them look horrible or foolish or take advantage of of their vulnerability. And so yes, I want to make pictures that are aesthetically pleasing, otherwise people won't look at them. And I also want to acknowledge that it's very provincial of Maine to sit here and complain about modern spectators enjoying violence as a spectacle, because that violence is far from me and I can choose to ignore it. But that's a privilege and for many people it's not the case. And so I think it's important to flip the perspective and ask. What do the photographed think? What do the people that suffer this violence think? Do they do they want their suffering to be represented? You're talking about kind of armchair critics that have basically 0 frame of reference or what they're talking about making broad sweeping commentaries with a lot of self righteousness. I mean that's that's a big part of the culture in general about many issues. I mean I've never had a lot of regard for people that shoot 1st and ask questions later or people that speak with authority about things they they they do not know themselves. So I, I, I honestly, you can hear the. My voice. But I also just tend to dismiss these things out of hand because it's not, it makes no sense to me. You know, it's so easy to comment. It just it's just too, you know, I try to avoid commentary on things that I I don't feel confident about commenting on. You know, it's, you know, it's like the old Bob Dylan line. You know, you better know your song well before you start singing. So sounds like a good journalist. Yeah, well, you know. It's you try you know and a flawed you know you're I make plenty of mistakes I mean this is the nature of things is being honest with yourself about what you can do and what you can and who you are. But but back to your question you know you know I've had moments where I've overstepped boundaries and and and overstepped people's privacy and they've they've reacted negatively and of course at that moment you you you apologize you step back you you you know you and you feel bad about that. I would say buy and I'd say that's a lot more rare than people might expect it expect you know by and large I think also if you're if you're being smart and thoughtful and kind of kind and respectful in your approach. People tend to to want to be photographed, have these moments of pain because the hope is that it then has some meaning. This like senseless, horrific loss will somehow. Means something other than just the finality of death and despair. You know, I would, I would feel that way. The interaction between the photojournalist and these folks is really important because, you know, anyone can imagine someone they don't know comes with an, comes in with a camera and starts photographing without speaking to them and they're in a moment of distress. Well, instead of that, go up and talk to someone and say. I can't believe what you're going through today, and I'm very sorry. I'm trying to document this so people can understand what's happening. If you don't mind, I'd like to stay and you'll get a whole different reaction. And that's how the pros that I know in this profession deal with the folks that they're photographing. It's not just running in and snapping images, it's it's a lot more sensitive and the people who have longevity in this profession. Are people who function in that way. Hey. Out of interest. I think that's a weird is like. Pretty huge civil war going on all across America, sure, but we just try to stay out. Stay out with what we see on the news. Seems like it's for the best. Yeah, well let me know if you want to try anything on. Thanks. For a movie about a civil war, it doesn't really show many civilians. Like there's a lot of journalists and soldiers, and but these people in this town are a rare example of civilians, and all they try to do is to ignore the civil war. And this reminds me of how a lot of people today just don't want to see any more news at all. You know, we talk a lot about news fatigue and news avoidance and how people are tired of scrolling their Instagram and finding among videos of happy dogs and funny cats. Suddenly another war image. So are you afraid that that happens to your work as well? Look, I mean, I unfortunately, I believe that it's important for people to see what's happening around the world especially, you know, if if you know your country or in the case of my country, I'm American, contributes to that war in some way, you know, for sending troops, if we're sending tax dollars, if we're sending whatever I think. Americans have a responsibility to understand what's going on in those places. So I believe fundamentally in the fact that even if this image makes you uncomfortable, you probably have to take a look at what's happening. So we saw this in Syria, 12 years of war, people are like by by year #3, it's like, OK, whatever, more dead Syrians, whatever. Now you're going. Now you're starting to see it to some extent with Gaza as we pass six months, we already see it for sure with Ukraine. Oh, yeah, OK, another city in Ukraine's bomb. So, So what? That's not the right attitude in my opinion. I think it's it's very difficult, but it's not the right attitude. Like the the attitude should be like, why are these things still happening? It's human nature to turn away and to turn a blind eye from what's horrible. I think so in that sense, one of my jobs as a photojournalist is to try to find a way to tell a story in a way that maybe is not overly graphic, that can convey a story in a way that is sensitive, that evokes emotion, but that doesn't necessarily make you want. To never read a newspaper again. Is there any photo recently that you think people should see? There's the one of the mother that just won World Press cradling her child, I think. And again, that's not too graphic. And I think that's one of the reasons why it spoke to so many people, because you just see the mother's pain. In the machine. Hey Michelle had been this one idea. Saba ship then did. The legend was a flare like an Al Khatib in a nurse. When it had the alarm be. It's it's one of the unfortunate aspects of the movie that, at least in some scenes, it depicts journalists as war junkies, adrenaline junkies. I'm thinking of when the veteran writer smiles to the young photographer while they're being attacked by a helicopter. That particular shot. Yeah, that's right. It's a bit perpetrating, don't you find It can be. And and I am a fan of the movie, I thought that Kirsten Dunst did an incredible job. As the veteran photographer in in depicting some of the long term issues that we face psychologically after witnessing so many things over time. But. Of course the movie has some issues. I think that that the adrenaline thing is is really and and I think it's a little bit perpetuated by movies like Civil War where it's just like this constant adrenaline rush through a war. You know, I think that the, the what we need to see is the quiet time and the downtime and the toll that that conflict takes and and why we do it. I'll say this, I don't have any serious colleagues in this profession who do it for adrenaline. That comes along with it, but the but the but the. But the problem is even bigger because at the very end, when the soldiers dragged the president out of his desk, the same journalist stops them from shooting him and says I need a quote. He gets the quote and he then lets them execute him. Now the director Garland said that he wanted journalists to be the heroes of his movie. I'm completely over, completely over this. Demonization and villainization of the press. It's been happening a lot. Yeah, it it's it comes from politicians and it comes from within social media, which is this weird public discourse space that doesn't really relate to how people talk to each other at all. We all know that, right? And and in some places it happens within the press, but whatever it is. And it's very good that he talks about this issue, but I'm not really sure if he succeeded in the movie. I mean, this is this, I think, is a perfect example of how journalists can turn people into news items and dehumanize them. This is the opposite of good journalism. This is the opposite of what a good photo does. I know I found, I found it. Obviously I found it very difficult and very, very uncomfortable. But to be honest with you, I've been in that situation to an extent several times. Where unfortunately, that I was not able to stop people. From being executed and that was what was going to happen and there's nothing I could do. And there were other times. When I was able to say don't kill these people and and either my presence there with the camera, my presence is a white westerner, or my presence of actually just saying. Take them prisoners, which happened one time in in Afghanistan in 2001 with the battle for Kabul that they captured two young Taliban soldiers and they were going to kill them. And I said no, don't kill them. You should take their take them prisoners and give them to the Americans and the guys go, OK, we're going to go do that. And that was the science. And then in Bosnia, I was with militia and security, unarmed civilians, right, right in front of me, telling me the whole time don't take any photographs. So. I did. I needed to document what was obviously was a war crime and the aftermath of the war crime and the photographs were used as evidence in the war crimes tribunal to indict many people and help convict them of of of war crimes. But unfortunately at that moment and nobody will ever know except for the journalists themselves, if you could have stopped it or not stopped it. I thought there was nothing I could do and. All I could do was make sure that there was evidence of of, of the crime. I've never witnessed anything like that, you know, You know, you sometimes you see bad behavior from other journalists, photographers, you know, it's where people are human or sometimes they're being foolish, sometimes they're being, they've been at it too long. I also can say that a lot of my kind of colleagues and and and friends in this profession are amongst the most. Thoughtful, honorable, courageous people I've I've ever met. You know, and and so. I tend to not appreciate these caricatures. You know, I don't think they're accurate. You would never have a journalist asking someone to stop from assassinating or killing that person until they got a quote. That person would would not be in the business for very long. So callous. I just need to quote and then go ahead and kill him. I don't care. At the same time, I'm not. I mean, I think if I was there, obviously as a photographer, I would have been doing what what Jesse did. But as a journalist, I don't think I would have, I don't know. I don't think I would have asked. I would have let, just let, I would have said. Maybe I would have said don't kill him. I don't know. I want to end by asking why do you do what you do? Francois Truffaut once said that every movie against war ends up being pro war. And I don't know if civil war succeeded or not at being against war. But one thing he shows, I think, is that war is hell, but it's also maybe not attractive but addictive. And there's a bit in your book where you say we feel more comfortable in the darkest places than we do back home, where life seems simple and too easy. Can you talk about that? Yes. When I was covering the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, Darfur, back-to-back combat, you know, I was literally flying from one war to another and going home basically where I was living in Istanbul to do laundry. And then I would get back on the plane and go. And so I felt at that time that I could really only relate to people who did similar work. You know, for me, I felt the most comfortable when I was not necessarily in a war zone, but surrounded by people who understood what I had witnessed and what I continue to witness. And given that history, again, often happens through conflict, it's important that we are there to document. We are there to amplify voices that need to be heard. And as much of it is a cliche, it is true to shine a light, to remind people what's going on they might not be paying attention to, you know, to me, you know, Are we just trying to provoke emotion with our images? Are we trying to also provoke a certain amount of understanding? You know, to me. Emotion is a is a is a casual feeling. It can be deep, but it also can be fleeting. You know, I I want to try and take images and create works that have a really sustained relationship that that hopefully have, you know, a deeper impact over time. It's my job as a photojournalist to keep them interested and if they're turned off from the news, maybe I'm not doing my job well enough. And so I I I take that as a a personal challenge. You have to look. At a familiar topic in a different way. And if you don't do that, people will not pay attention, no matter how strong that picture is. In Time and the Gelb in take away Adam in Take a Picture. Bashar. Al. Mahadev. Came out. And NFC and Dabur. With more 18 Zealand and Son with more, I think Zelena Black and not all. I'm fast enough enough to laugh though. Had a good Aqua. Honey.
</doc>