<video_id>Iqjqm7pBIIE</video_id>
<video_title>'I don't know if we're going to make it': Palestinian-American stuck in Gaza speaks out</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\'I don't know if we're going to make it' Palestinian-American stuck in Gaza speaks out.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231011</publish_date>

<doc>
More than 2 million Palestinians live in Gaza. About half of those are children. Let's bring in Haneen Okal. She's a Palestinian-American from Union County in New Jersey. She is currently stuck in Gaza City with her three children. They are 82 and a two month old. They cannot get out. Thank you so much. For joining us. Has the US embassy been able to give you any help to get out? How are you? Yes, we tried to contact the US Embassy so many times. Unfortunately, they couldn't help us at all. I contacted them through the phone, via email. I texted and I. I called different numbers, but nobody I couldn't hear back from any. They said that we're going to call you back within 24 hours or so on couple hours. But they couldn't, they couldn't at all call us or we didn't get any information from them. I applied, I submitted a form through the website, but that didn't work as well. And I don't know with what happened with Erez crossing border and what was happening with the Rafah border, I don't know if we're going to make it, but I am absolutely looking forward to the help of the US Embassy. We are all here feeling abandoned. That and we're feeling that we're left alone. So we really looking for the US Embassy to help the US citizens who are living in Gaza That was just an Israeli airstrike out that we just heard. That was just an Israeli airstrike that we just heard our that we just heard a lot of sound like a a bomb or a missile. Is that what we just heard? Yes, we are. Yes, that's happening. 24 hours old time. They're bombing all around from south to north to the center of Gaza. Everywhere. Bombing is everywhere. Your your kids, how are they doing with that It's terrible. My kids are very scared and they're afraid of that stuff going on. I have to explain all the time. I have to calm them down and trying to make them feel comfortable, safe, and trying to make them busy with other things. So they can feel afraid or scared about like they are like what happened with me, for example, today I was going trying to get out from Gaza. I was going to the Rafah border. And while we were going there, we tried multiple ways to get out of Gaza, going to the hospital so we could make it. And also, my son saw all the locations destroyed his favorite places. He was he was shocked with what he saw. So we had to see all that and we had to go through what we say. Okay. So it was like, you know, you're going to death Yes. There needs to be a way for you to get out. I mean, you're not Hamas. You're an innocent person and you have three kids. You need to be able to get out You heard earlier the suggestions from the IDF spokesman I spoke with Saturday night. Where are innocent Palestinians supposed to go? He said, you can go to the south, you can go to the shore. Is that at all realistic? We just we just heard about your attempt to go to the border crossing in the south, and that didn't work. Is there anywhere for you to go to escape to escape this barrage of missiles? No. We tried everywhere. They say go to the shore and then they bombed the store. Next day. They say go to the north and then be bombed the north areas next day, like everywhere. They're bombing everywhere. So no place is safe here in Gaza Strip. And it's like it's just terrible and very, very, you know, very hard to explain. Because they're bumping everywhere. Well, I hope the wife just a place or like a place that is close to Hamas, they're bombing places that are not related to Hamas to like, I don't know, everywhere. Haneen. Well, we have your number. I know that the White House watches this show or the White House can call me and we will put them in touch with you. You and your kids need to get out safely and you need to get out safe. As soon as is humanly possible. Please stay safe. Stay in touch with us. We're going to do everything we can to help you and so much. I appreciate it. Thank you.
</doc>