<video_id>PzLBHU9S-go</video_id>
<video_title>'I was so shocked': Mom who broke down on DNC stage speaks out</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\'I was so shocked' Mom who broke down on DNC stage speaks out.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240822</publish_date>

<doc>
one of the most moving moments of the DNC unfolded last night. It was not the stirring speech of a gifted politician, but the heartbroken words of this man's parents, 23 year old Hirsch Goldberg. Poland is an Israeli American hostage held by Hamas. He is one of eight Americans still held nearly 11 months. That's right, 11 months after the terror attacks on Israel. Last night, they took to the stage wearing the number 320 for the number of days he's been held prisoner. In an inflamed Middle East. We know the one thing that can most immediately release pressure and bring calm to the entire region. A deal that brings this diverse group of 109 hostages home and ends the suffering of the innocent civilians in Gaza. So there you go. Such an incredible moment. And John and Rachel Goldberg, Poland, join me now. Rachel, we should note you're both wearing 321. You were wearing 320 last night. It's not 321. Did we change it every day? Yeah. And what did that moment mean to you last night? I was so shocked and overwhelmed because we had been told to anticipate in neutral to negative reception. Yeah. and when we walked out and suddenly there were thousands of people who got to their feet and started to chant, bring them home. We were just swelled with support and it was overwhelming. And I just started to weep. Yeah, I think a lot of people were, John, how did that, how did that, resonate with you seeing that? I mean, because I know this week what we've been hearing is obviously there are protests here. There's a lot of deep opposition to the war in Gaza. but there's still in the hearts of a lot of folks in this country. Just pain and agony for what you're going through. It's so easy to politicize everything. And that's the danger and that's what's been happening. But it was heartening last night to see that even before we spoke a word, I think people understood that there's a human side to this story. It's not just an issue. It's not just numbers and ambiguity. These are 109 real human beings with loved ones, with families waiting for them, their innocence on all sides. In the Middle East, conflict to our suffering. And I think the people in the room understood that last night. Yeah, that was what was so important. And you've emphasized the diversity of the hostages, right? Well, I think that there's a real misunderstanding of who this hostage cohort is that this is a monolithic group of people. And as I mentioned last night, they are from 23 different countries. They are Christian. They are Jewish. They're Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists. And this is something that gets lost when someone has a very specific reason to create a narrative a certain way. And we all so very much are constantly saying we are extremely concerned and heartbroken for the innocent civilians in Gaza and the innocent civilians in Gaza who were dragged there on October 7th. You don't have to choose one or the other. This is a humanitarian issue. Absolutely. and everybody's feeling it. Everybody's feeling. And John Hirsh lost part of his left arm in the text. We do. We know of any idea how he's doing, how how he's holding up? 120 days ago, we saw a video that Hamas released of Hirsh. It was the first sign of life we had on him in 201 days, and the last we've had since. But that video is something that no parent would ever want to see of their kid with a limb missing, bruising on their face, looking pale. But at the same time, when that's what you get after 201 days, it just gave us strength to see him, to hear him, and it continues to carry us now that he's a fighter and a survivor and he's going to keep on going. And we need him to know and all the hostages to know that we are not stopping until we get them all out. And, Rachel, I know I was asking this during the commercial break, but do you have any sense? I mean, there are these talks that are going on right now. Do you have any sense as to where they're going? Are they finally going to get to some kind of resolution so we can bring your son and the rest of those hostages home? Well, we're not any more privy to what is going on behind the scenes than any, any regular person watching the news or following. We are always hopeful and optimistic. We know that many of the people who are participating in the negotiations, and in everything that's happening, are really trying to lean forward. At the end of the day, this is up to two men from the two primary parties. Yeah, Prime Minister Netanyahu and Hamas leader Yahya Senor. And, I think until each of them decide that it's time for our children, our loved ones, the whole entire mass of people who are caught in the crosshairs of this conflict no longer should be pawns in this game. It won't end. And it's so important. And I do want to go back to that moment last night that people understand that the human element of this, they're real families suffering, real families in the dark. And to have that outpouring of support, it just must have meant so much that it's still there, have spite everything that's in the political, you know, spectrum right now, the dialog that's happening and so much bitter opposition to what's taking place that it's still there, that I mentioned in my remarks that really one of the things that has carried all of the hostage families to get up every morning and keep on pushing and keep fighting is the tremendous support, strength prayers we get from literally all over the world. And last night was a microcosm of this. I don't know, 2020 5000 people in the building. Not only were they supporting us as we spoke, but afterwards just people stopping us. And as we walked out shouting, we're with you, we're supporting you, our prayers are with you. Keep going. It was really none of the none of the reaction that you were prepared for that they told you you might receive. Correct. That's that's so important. Yeah. It's so important. And and I'm sure it sustains you to some extent. It's not. It doesn't do everything right. But it's obviously helpful. And I think it is really important. We don't all have to agree. And that was a big theme last night that a lot of the different speakers discussed. But we have to try to understand. We don't have to agree. We just have to try to understand those with whom we don't share the same opinions. That's all right. That's what we have to try to understand each other. There was a lot of talk about looking out for your neighbors, you know, and that that crosses our boundaries. You know, nations. We honestly did not even know that we were speaking on the night that was under the freedom theme. Interesting. But it makes sense, right? That's that's what we're pushing for. we've been pushing for 321 days and are going to continue to fight for it. Well, thank you very much to both of you. Really appreciate I know we say it, time and again, but, we are thinking of you and praying for you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Appreciate it. Rachel and John, thanks so much.
</doc>