<video_id>VWu7zjxvOxg</video_id>
<video_title>'It was animal slaughter': Israeli festival survivor describes horror</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\'It was animal slaughter' Israeli festival survivor describes horror.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231012</publish_date>

<doc>
The infamous rampage through the outdoor music festival killed at least 260 partiers, at least. Many are still missing, and the stories keep coming out. Sara Ben Sala barely survived. He's shown here dancing with friends just hours before the massacre. And I spoke to him from hospital in Tel Aviv. And a warning to his story is difficult to hear. I want to make it clear. First thing first, it was at this festival and we and we did nothing to provoke them. We just was dancing and having fun. I can't. I can forget the moment that when I got in the festival and I don't know anybody, anyone there, it was something like 34,000 people. And just got into the entrance and a just a guy that I don't even know then came to me and start to hug me and bless him for coming for the festival. We had a small camp next to us, the German people from German, just tourist who came all over the way from Berlin or wherever they came, and we made drinks together. We had laugh. It's just so much happiness. What happened to you? Tell me how you got wounded. And I forget when I saw the story. The first moment that we realized that there is myself, I was really come in first because it's not the first time to the same missiles I was fighting in there took it down. And then I was doing. I've been serving the army. And then then the start towards the missiles. And one of the producers of the festival just jumped on the fence and screamed that the terrorists are coming and legs and legs just they kind of landed not there for myself. And then the panic begin. It was a big panic. Everybody was jumping on the fence. Everybody ran to their cars and there was a lot of fire out there. Just even in the biggest war thing that we seen in the movie movies. I can explain almost how many bullets and missile were flying around up, not to the big mister like RPG and everything was RPG all over. I was fighting in the war. Never seen so many RPG history. And how did you get shot? And Sahar, how did you get get shot? The part of the story, we tried to go to another place and they turned us around again. And then when we saw a policeman standing next to a shelter and the look of us and the policeman look at us say, there is no ID, there are, they are all over the place. Get inside the shelter. It's the only way we got inside. The shelters are suffering. I remember 30 or 40 people, but my friend say that was six still living there, 50 or 60 people. And we got inside. The shattered was something like two meters at all, like just two meter square. And we got inside and then the shooting started and the policeman tried to come down. It's not a terrorist is the IDF. But the shooting was on us. I could see the shot. I couldn't. I can feel on the on the stance of the soldier killed at the bullets. In this case, it's not IDF. It's not IDF. And then just look at us, say, stay inside, pull out the gun. And then it was a mass of shots all over the place. We can see in the intensive, the shelter, a lot of bullets flying inside, but they couldn't get us because if they can turn left, but because it was an entrance and then left to the shelter, a small something like. So we made the saw. It sounds to me like you're directed to take shelter, but you were like a cornered animal in this shelter because that's where the. Shelter it wasn't. It wasn't the shelter. It was animal slaughter. It's like they take all the animals to one place and shoot them all. the policeman got shot in the run away and he killed one of the terrorists, but got shot and thrown away. I found him on soccer life and God, the policeman and one second, silly. Then they they dropped the first grenade drop inside. It was to explode in the entrance. I'm sorry if it's too much to. Take my life. Okay. I need to tell about this. Just a second, please. Thank you. After the first grenade of something like 45 seconds, it dropped the second grenade and they hit the wall, hit my head and blow to the back of the rope for the people of the people in the back row and explode on their. And then was it something like a lot of smoke inside? And they my friend, their friend, they start to choke. And she wanted to go out and to start to run away from the shelter. We tried to catch her. I remember I wasn't the second of the people. I tried to catch her with my hand and it was sleeping and she tackle, I think she tackled the terrorists and the shutter Then from the zero, from zero point blank. From point blank. Point blank from point blank and after, after each other. Then it just got to the side. I could never forget the face of it. It was smiling at us. It looks like the devil just looked at us one point. The gun, the column, the machine gun in front again, face. And just to spread everything around all the people. I was in the second row, all the people in the first or in the second row shot dead. I just opened my eyes and opened my mouth and start to go down the world because I got I understood that I got hit. But then in a state where yet because it was blood all over and screaming and from all the adrenaline, I got it it in my body. But I can't really understand what happened. And I think his gun was broken that way. Stopped the shot and there was a third grenade inside of the building, but it didn't explode. We found him on the floor. We would you say with that we don't don't touch it so it wouldn't explode. You know what, Sara? I'm just pleased that you made it out. What a complete and utter horror. I wish it was all over in all the movie. You can go outside somehow. We then. And no joke. I saw the kids that the bodies full of bullets again, that all all the body parts on the floor. And she was calling to her boyfriend and dead boyfriend and start to kiss him until she got she died by herself. Wow. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry for you. I'm so happy that you survived. And we wish you all the best. And we thank you for this story, because as you say, it's important for people to hear Thank you very. Much. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Just really wanted to make it clear. Just last think. It wasn't the war. It was a slider. Cicely. It was a big slider that didn't care about animals or people. You didn't care if you're a Jew, American, a Christian, even not a muslim. They killed even evil Muslims. They killed you didn't care about anything. I was convinced. My conversation with Sahar in the hospital in Tel Aviv is too difficult.
</doc>