<video_id>IfWjwKl-CA8</video_id>
<video_title>Analyst: How Hamas is using cryptocurrency to raise funds</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Analyst How Hamas is using cryptocurrency to raise funds.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231014</publish_date>

<doc>
Investigators in the US and around the world have identified a revenue source being exploited by Hamas online donors offering support in cryptocurrency. Now, even before Hamas launched a surprise attack on Israel, US officials had been probing the group's use of cryptocurrency through alleged money launderers. Hamas's use of digital currency represents just one of the many ways the terrorist organization has sought to raise funds while evading sanctions. Hamas and other terrorist groups have used Facebook and acts to publicly post their crypto wallet addresses asking for donations. That's according to a report by US authorities. All right. Joining me now is military man seeking CEO of the crypto analytics software firm Beto O'Rourke. Thanks so much for being here with us. So just first, how significant a role is crypto in terms of funding Hamas? Well, from our side, we've analyzed and studied deeply the addresses belonging to companies controlled by Hamas, as indicated in two orders 15, 22 and 1923. It's public. So the total amount of almost $41 million was received at this addresses. And this is a total to turn over all the addresses listed in to previous seizure orders and this was this significant amount received from September 2021 and April 2024. So over four years, with the majority accounts being received between December 2022 and April 2023. So yes, all the things. So, so that's a lot. But obviously it could be a lot more that we don't know about. So how exactly does it work? How do they they get the money? I understand they fundraise on social media. I mean, how does that all work? So they gather different, different social media and putting the different wallets, addresses and then they're collecting money, I mean, crypto from all over the world. And then they are using intermediary addresses from a different kind of exchanges around the world and then collecting them into several wallets and and funds. This means they are laundering money using crypto. Well, it happens, unfortunately. Is it untraceable in terms of the people who are who are donating this money? Almost. So in case if somebody say in investing or donating, terrorists are going to be organizations directly via centralized exchanges. It's possible, but nobody is doing that. So they are actually they are usually using decentralized wallets and non-custodial wallets and then those organizations are laundering money to avoid such. So just closing. So it's almost impossible. Yeah. So I mean, we're talking about, you know, people donating money on social media, but in terms of these intermediaries and so on, I mean, what what role does Iran play here? You mean centralized exchanges and so on, so we can determine the precise origin of the funds. So whether they were directly sent from from other terrorist groups or source from donations, etc.. But however, our investigation revealed that a significant portion of this funds primarily originated from cryptocurrency exchanges. Some of them are really popular, some of them are have Russia origin, but it's not connected with Russia. So because it's not it's not, you know, exchanges, they are not aiming to help terrorists. That's the most important thing here. But in some of the cases, they are blind and they cannot understand what really happened. And early and sometimes weeks or months should be passed till the exchanges are revealing such bad things happening. So it's not it's not online. So time should pass. And now we may see that some of the exchanges fall under such bad circumstance in terms of money laundering and terrorist financing. So, I mean, it sounds very hard to stop. I mean, what more can be done to to cut off this source of funding for Hamas? Yeah, that's the good question. I mean, crypto is still in the gray zone, but things that thankfully for you, you know, international anti-money and anti-money laundering measures are coming. And because of legislation helping to reveal the source of funds, the dirty money in crypto, it goes more and more better to reveal. And from my perspective, the best way is to use KYC. AML measures in any kind of wallets exchanges and to to put exchanges, put exchanges attention on that. And, you know, after all, crypto is not about crime, is not about terrorist organizations, financing, etc., but anybody should be aware of it because of where we are. So it happens and everybody should pay a lot of attention on it. Yeah, it's it's very complex for most of us to untangle, but really appreciate getting your insights on this Dmitri magic. And thank you so much. Thanks.
</doc>