<video_id>jEW8H34zEGw</video_id>
<video_title>Anderson Cooper's connection to the parents of hostage Hersh Goldberg-Polin, who was killed by Hamas</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Anderson Cooper's connection to the parents of hostage Hersh Goldberg-Polin, who was killed by Hamas.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240904</publish_date>

<doc>
Our breaking news this weekend that IDF forces recovered the bodies of six hostages, including 23 year old Israeli American Hirsh Goldberg. Pulling it all been murdered in a tunnel in Gaza. His story became one of the most well known, in part because of the tireless efforts of his two parents, Rachel Goldberg and John Poland, to advocate for their son, Hirsh, and all the other hostages. We warn you, some of the video you're about to see is graphic. Five days after the October 7th massacre at the Nova music Festival site, an Israeli soldier showed me a disturbing video of a young Israeli man with his left hand blown off, being kidnaped, loaded into a pickup truck. I didn't know who he was, but four days later, by coincidence, I interviewed John Poland and Rachel Goldberg for the first time on CNN. When I turned on my phone, which I don't normally use on the Jewish Sabbath, that's when I saw two texts pop up at eight, ten, eight, 11 in the morning. The first one said, I love you. And the second one said, I'm sorry. And immediately I knew something horrible must have been happening or was about to happen. I didn't know they were the parents of the young man I'd seen in that video, until John said this during our interview. And we know from three eyewitness accounts of survivors that basically, there were at least 11 grenades thrown into the bomb shelter. Our son, by all accounts, officer of the witnesses, had his left arm blown off at some point during the attack. That's when I realized I'd seen their son. And they had no idea the video of him being taken hostage existed. I waited till the interview was over and called them and then sent them the video I had. I met with them a week later. First of all, it's it's a crazy sequence of events that we talked to you through a computer screen and then get a phone call from you saying, I have a video of your son. I didn't want to say on live television, which is so appreciated. Of course, the way everything has unfolded, the gentleness that you used. Because at the end of the day, you're a journalist and journalists want a story. And that could have been dealt with in many other ways that were not kind and gentle. Seeing that video in general gave us a dose of optimism. How were you able to get through each day? I personally feel like we have to keep running to the end of the earth to save him, and we have to try to go believing that somehow he got treatment and he's there. They showed me Hirsch's room, which Rachel would visit to feel close to him. We have reports that face himself, and I went out Friday night and it was like screaming to him and hoping him just because Friday night, you know, we bless our children traditionally in Jewish homes. You bless your children on Friday night. So I was screaming. It's a traditional blessing for us. The Bible, what is the blessing today? It says, May God bless you and keep you. May God may God's face shine upon you and be gracious to you. May God's countenance countenance be lift up to lifted up towards you, and give you peace. In the weeks after Rachel and John worked tirelessly to raise awareness about Hirsch and the other hostages, Richard would. You're wearing, a tag that says 26. Don't tell people what that is. Well, this morning I realized, you know what? It's day 26, and I don't know if anyone is really counting. I don't know how many people really care every single day until these people come home. I'm going to be where and what day it is. So this is my new. Fashion statement. The weeks turned into months. This was them in April. We're living on another planet, so I don't know that we comprehend time the way that you do. Or normal people. We feel that everybody has failed our leaders. All of them have failed to make this suffering on all sides. Stop. we feel that we as parents have failed because as a parent, your job is to keep your children safe. It feels good. But then suddenly, a few weeks later, Hamas released this hostage video of Hirsch. It was the first proof his parents had. He was alive. We were sobbing, tears and emotional, overwhelmed feelings were just abounding. we weren't even listening to what he was saying. Just hearing his voice and seeing him moving and that he was alive. Then in late June, another video was released by the hostages and missing families, for this one taken on October 7th. Moments after the first video I'd sent them ended. You had so much concern about, whether Hirsch had made it out just from his injury alone. you see a tourniquet being put on at later on in the video? That. I mean, do you think that probably saved his life? Well, I'm happy that for whatever reasons, that he was obviously treated because, as we all know, on day 201, we had a video released that shows Hirsch with a stump where that jagged bone had been. But we know from day 201, thank God that he is alive. 129 days later, that hope became heartbreak. On day 330, Hirsch Goldberg Poland's body was found with five other hostages. Alexander Loeb in off Carmel, got Almog Suruchi, Adin Yerushalmi, and Ori Danilo. Israel says they were executed in a tunnel in Gaza, shot to death at close range. According to the Israeli prime Minister's office, there believed to be about 101 hostages still remaining in Gaza, 35 are believed to be dead. Short time ago, I spoke with Orna and Ronen Neutra, whose son Omer is another Israeli American still being held captive. Orna Ronen, thank you for talking with me today. I know you consider John Poland and Rachel Goldberg, Poland family. How are you dealing with what's happened? We are completely devastated, Anderson. This shouldn't have happened. Hirsch was supposed to come out in the first phase of a deal that's been on the table for a long time now, and it's just completely outrageous and devastating that this is what happened. Hirsch managed to survive in the 11 most terrible months with the monsters of, of of Hamas in Gaza, and yet was murdered and executed a couple of days ago in a most brutal way. It just heartbreaking. Rachel, yesterday, at the funeral said, that that she hopes that that Hirsch's death will be what she called a turning point in this horrible situation. And, and John said maybe, just maybe, your death, meaning Hirsch's death is the stone, the fuel that will bring home the remaining 101 hostages. Do you think that's possible? Do you feel like something may be different now for for Omer and the others? You know, it's it's not a clear path. we're seeing still many challenges, in the region. We're seeing a prime minister, that is not willing to make the compromises needed to reach a deal to bring our son and the other hostages back. We sure see, the Israeli public pouring in big numbers into the streets and telling the Israeli government that this event of the six hostages that were murdered few days back, it just unacceptable that this will continue. And we just hoping that this outpour outrage that, we see in Israel is going to affect the government and Bibi Netanyahu himself to, to reach that so desired deal and get the hostages back, as we know, this is urgent. And among them are 22 year old son, who, by the way, turns 23 on October 14th and this will be his second birthday, being held hostage. A very true, true. It's hard to think about that. No, we can't think that far. And we really hope that that, a deal, that the US government is working so hard with the partners in the region will be caught between Israel and Hamas and the two leaders, Hamas leader and Israeli, government must reach that deal, or else we won't see our deal once coming back. Do you have faith on unthinkable in in the prime minister, in Netanyahu, he asked for forgiveness that the six murdered hostages weren't brought back alive. He also said Hamas will pay a heavy price for this. Do you think he has the hostages front and center in his priorities? Well, we don't, unfortunately not. we met him in the white House with President Biden. We looked him in the eyes and unfortunately, our feeling is that he has his own political future ahead of him rather than the safety of our son. It's not just our son. I don't believe that he has the interest of the Israeli people, as his top priority. anyone you know that's looking at this can see that Israelis need the hostages to come home for them to be able to recover from this, to move forward. But the first step would be to bring the hostages back to to make the families whole, to, bring back some sense of security. Right. This was a breach between the Israeli government and its people,
</doc>