<video_id>T_0cXkyvTBg</video_id>
<video_title>Bernie Sanders rips Netanyahu ahead of high-stakes speech to Congress</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Bernie Sanders rips Netanyahu ahead of high-stakes speech to Congress.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240724</publish_date>

<doc>
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will address a joint meeting of Congress ahead of his speech, hundreds of protesters staged a sit in inside the Capitol calling for a ceasefire in Gaza. Dozens of Democratic lawmakers are planning to skip the speech as the party remains divided over his handling of the war. CNN's Lauren Fox is with me now. What are we expecting today? Loren? Yeah, this address is coming at such a tumultuous time. And not just U.S. politics, but also Israeli politics. And as Benjamin Netanyahu faces challenges back home. This is a high stakes speech for him, given the fact that there are lawmakers who are going to be in this audience, who have serious questions, serious doubts about Netanyahu's leadership right now. And that includes some Republicans. I was talking last night to Senator Joni Ernst. She serves on the Armed Services Committee, and she said she has to hear a very clear and concise message from Netanyahu today about the path forward in this war and how he is going to get hostages home. She said. It is far beyond time for that to happen. But you are also going to see many Democrats not attending this speech today. There are more than 80 House Democrats who we know are going to be boycotting six U.S. senators who are going to be boycotting, including Patty Murray, who is a top Democrat in leadership, who is not going to be attending this speech today. Overseeing it is going to be Senator Ben Cardin. He's going to be presiding. And I think that that just says a lot about this moment right now as Netanyahu comes in to give this address. You know, there are some Democrats who are going to be having alternative programing. This is Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who said in a statement, instead of attending Benjamin Netanyahu's address, I will attend a panel discussion led by the Center of American Progress and other organizations on the path to Peace. This event will feature a Palestinian leader, a Jewish Israeli leader and a former IDF soldier, all of whom are dedicated to finding a path toward peace and security. And I just want to remind people that this address is happening after the initial invitation went out from speaker Mike Johnson. Obviously, it's going to be really interesting to see what House Republicans think of this speech. Meanwhile, last night on the Senate floor, a series of Democrats addressed the issues that they see happening and concerns that they have about Benjamin Netanyahu coming. This is independent Senator Bernie Sanders. It will be the first time in American history that a war criminal has been given that order. Frankly, this invitation to Netanyahu is a disgrace and something that we will look back on with regret. And earlier this year, remember, Majority Leader Chuck Schumer actually called on the Israeli people to hold a new election and replace Benjamin Netanyahu. Laura Fox in Washington will be watching this very closely. Lauren, thank you very much. will address the US Congress for a record fourth time. Now he hopes to shore up American support for the war in Gaza. But many of the families of Israeli hostages still held in Gaza are criticizing his trip, with some saying he should have remained at home to secure a deal to release the hostages. Now his trip comes amid an upheaval in U.S. politics. Though his visit was orchestrated by Republican leaders, many prominent Democrats like Vice President Harris and Senator Elizabeth Warren won't be in attendance for his speech. I'm not going because, Benjamin Netanyahu has led that region into a complete humanitarian disaster. He has put his own personal interests ahead of the interests of the people of his country. And what he has done in Gaza is unspeakable right now. Prime Minister Netanyahu is scheduled to meet President Biden on Thursday and former President Trump on Friday. CNN's Not a Beshear joins us now live from London. so not a what can you tell us about the upcoming speech and what Netanyahu here expects to achieve? Look, mean? There is growing pressure from representatives and family members of those hostages still held captive by Hamas in Gaza. For Prime Minister Netanyahu to strike a deal. They want that to be the focus of his address to Congress. In fact, we've heard from the host of Challenge Forum, which has said they want to see Netanyahu opening his address by saying that is a deal. And we have heard some optimistic notes from the Israeli prime minister, and we've even heard some signs of optimism from U.S. officials as well. It's understood that there is a clear framework on the deal that they're just hammering out those finer details and technicalities. But as you mentioned, there is growing criticism of the Israeli prime minister back home in Israel and from the family members and representatives still have cut to saying that he should be at home focusing on the return of those hostages, bringing an end to the war in Gaza, securing that ceasefire agreement. Now, of course, all eyes will be on his address. Now, as you mentioned, we are already seeing backlash in Washington DC, not only as members of the Democrat Party now choosing to boycott, to not attend the congressional address by the Israeli prime minister. But we're also seeing protests as well. Of course, we saw protests yesterday. Members of the Jewish Voice for peace movement occupying is staging a sit in in congressional building. We've also seen, of course, other protest taking place across the country and are expecting to see more today. But of course, that growing black backlash is not only centered in Israel and in Washington. It is a global backlash. And, of course, the U.S. has been vocal in pushing the Israeli government for a cease fire deal to be struck. Now, at this stage, we've heard from President Biden speaking on Monday, he believes that the parties involved in this negotiation are, in his words, on the verge of coming to some sort of agreement. The State Department has said that the gap separating those two is narrowing, that there are still some issues which remain. But of course, pressure is mounting. And of course, the situation in Gaza is only worsening as well. If a deal isn't struck soon, we will be entering ten months of this war. That is, ten months with hostages still held captive in Hamas. That is, ten months with civilians in Gaza being killed on a daily basis. That death toll now topping 39,000. The UN warning that famine is spreading throughout the Gaza Strip, and we are seeing the humanitarian situation worsened with that disease, is spreading rapidly across the Gaza Strip. We're seeing continued airstrikes in southern Gaza as well. Of course, deadly strikes in Khan Younis, where hundreds, thousands, even civilians have been ordered to evacuate once again. So it is a deteriorating situation. We're seeing mounting pressure from U.S. officials. Many have been careful to clarify that the U.S. maintains its strong relationship with Israel, that Israel continues to be one of the United States closest and perhaps most important allies in the Middle East. But again, we have seen those tensions mounting, particularly between President Biden and the Israeli Prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. They are expected to meet, of course, on Thursday. Netanyahu now also expected to meet with with Donald Trump formally as president, and of course, also with Kamala Harris. So important meetings taking place. But all eyes will be on that congressional address later today, expectations around what he might say. And of course, the reaction, crucially from the Democrats as well, and all of the very real dynamics that you laid out, particularly on the humanitarian front, playing out in the politics of who will attend Netanyahu's address. surely not a Beshear. Thank you so much for the reporting. Now, the head of the opposition Labor Party in Israel is blasting the trip. Yeah, your goal and posting on it, saying, quote, Netanyahu went to the US for an extravagant show in the middle of the war without a deal to return hostages. I want to bring in CNN global affairs analyst Mark Esper. He was U.S. defense secretary under President Trump. good to see you. Thanks for being here. Now, Secretary of State Antony Blinken says they're inside the ten yard line, driving toward the goal line and getting a cease fire. That's his metaphor, not mine. But in getting a cease fire and hostage agreement that would produce, a cease fire. How optimistic are you of a deal getting done at this stage? And what do you make of Netanyahu appearing before Congress without a finalized deal? Right. Well, I was actually with, Jake Sullivan and Tony Blinken this past weekend in Aspen, and we talked about this and both believe are confident that we're within the ten yard line, as you said. But they also note that the often those last ten yards are the most difficult. look, I would say in some ways we've been here before. There have been numerous proposals on the table for Hamas. at the last minute they've raised the ante with, asking for adjustments and amendments and so forth. So we'll see. I mean, there is hope that there will be some type of agreement, but my view has been that Hamas is not going to be interested in any deal that does not call for a complete cease fire and the removal of all Israeli troops from Gaza. And, I see the Israeli government, Netanyahu unwilling to go there yet. if you look, the polling shows that a majority of, Israelis want to see, no more Hamas in Gaza. And they are very concerned about what might happen if, if Hamas is not dismantled. So I think they're probably further apart than we would like, but we'll see what happens in the coming days.
</doc>