<video_id>kBLvPKT3R6k</video_id>
<video_title>Biden confirms 4-year-old Abigail Edan among hostages released</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Biden confirms 4-year-old Abigail Edan among hostages released.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231126</publish_date>

<doc>
A little girl named Abigail turned four years old. She spent her birthday that birthday, at least 50 days before that held hostage by Hamas. Today, she's free. And Jill and I, together, as so many Americans, are praying for the fact that she is going to be all right. You know, she's free and she's in Israel now. And so those who are now wrapping Abigail in loving care, the supportive services she needs. She's been through a terrible trauma. You know, her mom was killed in front of her when it when a kibbutz was attacked by Hamas terrorists on October 7th. Abigail ran to her dad there, who then was gunned down, gunned down as well, while using his body to shield little Abigail. She then ran to a neighbor for help where they were all taken hostage. That entire house and neighbors were taken hostage by Hamas and held for 50 days. What she endured is unthinkable. Abigail was among 13 hostages released today from Gaza. Under that brokered and sustained, though intensive U.S. diplomacy. She's now safely in Israel and we continue to press and expect four additional Americans will be released as well. We will not stop working until every hostage is returned to their loved ones. As I said when I spoke about this deal on Friday, this has been the product of a lot of hard work and weeks of personal engagement for me and my team. We have been in close contact with the leaders of Qatar, Egypt and Israel, speaking with each one of them repeatedly over the past few weeks to help secure this deal. We spoke again yesterday with the emir of Qatar. I owe special thanks to in order to keep the hostages release on track and push for Abigail to be part of this release. And I'll be speaking again shortly with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. And we will continue to remain personally engaged, personally engaged to see that this deal is fully implemented and work to extend the deal as well. For weeks, I've been advocating a pause in the fighting for two purposes to increase the assistance, get into Gaza civilians who need help and to facilitate release of hostages. We know that innocent children in Gaza are suffering greatly as well because this war that Hamas has unleashed is so has such consequences. Thousands have been killed and from the earliest days of this crisis. I've worked closely with President Sisi of Egypt, the Israeli government, and King Abdullah of Jordan, and leaders throughout the region to expand the delivery of critical humanitarian assistance to help innocent Palestinians in need. We're not part of Hamas under this deal. The fighting in Gaza has now been paused for three days. Over that time, 58 hostages have been released, including two Thai, Filipino and Russian nationals. Dozens of families have been reunited. And we worked urgently, urgently to take advantage of the pause to surge aid into Gaza. We've moved approximately 200 aid trucks into Gaza each day, loaded with food, water, medicine, fuel and cooking gas. More is needed. But this deal is delivering life saving results. Critically needed aid is going in and hostages are coming out and they're still structured so that it can be extended to keep building on these results. That's my goal. That's our goal to keep this pause going beyond tomorrow so that we can continue to see more hostages come out and surge more humanitarian relief into into those. And who in need in Gaza. We've seen this is a day by day approach, hour by hour process. Nothing is guaranteed and nothing is being taken for granted. But the proof that this is working and worth pursuing further is in every smile and every grateful tears we see on the faces of those families who are finally getting back together again. The proof is little Abigail. More than 20 other children, 18 years and younger, have been released. They've been released through this deal as well. They've endured a terrible ordeal. They can now begin the long journey toward healing. I'm going to continue working with the emir of Qatar, President Sisi, Egypt, Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel, to do everything possible to see the hostages are freed. All the hostages. I'm grateful for the personal partnership as we pursued this deal from each of those men I just mentioned. As we work together to see the and see all this implement and now to try to extend it further. I continue working with all our partners to take the hard but necessary steps to build an integrated and more prosperous and more peaceful future in the region. A two state solution is the only way to guarantee the long term security of both Israelis and Palestinian people, to make sure Israel and Palestinians alike live in equal measure of freedom and dignity. We will not give up on working toward that goal. Thank you very much. Thank God she's home. I just can't imagine the enjoyment in it. I just wish I were there to hold her. Mr. President. Do you have an update on the other Americans who are being held in any sense as to when they would be released? We are hopeful, but I don't have anything firmly to tell you at this moment. So do you expect that if you are able to use this momentum to extend the pause, have you extracted any guarantees about proof of life for other hostages, or do you have an expectation of how much longer you can push this? Well, look, you know, the deal calls for for every for every ten hostages released to extend another day. So I'm hopeful this is not the end that's going to continue. But we don't know. And but I get a sense that all the players in the region, even the neighbors who aren't and we have been directly involved now are looking for a way to end this. So the hostages are all released. And Hamas is just completely, how can I say no longer in control of any portion of Gaza? Do they have control of all of the hostages? Are there still other militant groups that you have to deal with? We think there are probably other militant groups. We're not certain. Mr. President, Mr. President, how is Abigail doing? What's her physical condition? Well, I haven't gotten that information. I just want to let you know immediately they were going to cross into Egypt. As you recall, that was a group about an older, non-American, elderly, elderly woman is very sick who was in need of immediate medical help. So they arranged to cross directly into Israel to be able to take her to a hospital. All I know is that she was being held. I don't know. I haven't seen a photograph. I've just been in communication with my team. But she is safely ensconced in Israel. But there's a lot more work to be done. How many days would you like to see the hospital on board? I would like to see us move to a point where we were able to. Well, let me put it this way. I'd like to see the pause go on. As long as prisoners kept coming out. All right. Thank you all so very much. I know. You know, we have to call you. I know you say why she called me with only 10 minutes or so and I said, that's No. Two sided because we didn't know. I didn't want to be having this press conference if they weren't physically even when they were in the Red Cross ambulance. I didn't want to do it because they were not out there. They were still in Gaza. So I don't thank you enough and thanks for your patience. And I know we're here. So I was doing okay. Happy hour as you guys.
</doc>