<video_id>DWhlNn_CPVg</video_id>
<video_title>Biden: Downplaying Hamas' October 7 attack must stop</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Biden Downplaying Hamas' October 7 attack must stop.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240507</publish_date>

<doc>
right now, President Biden is delivering remarks at the US Capitol. So we're going to listen in. Thank you. Thank you. Sir, please. Thank you to Isaiah chapter ten introduction for your leadership in the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. There are two scholar statesmen and, a dear friend, Speaker Johnson, Peter Jeffries, members of Congress, and especially the survivors of the Holocaust. My mother here, she look at you. God love you all. God's love you all a Foxman and all other survivors who embody absolute courage and dignity and grace are here as well. During these sacred days of remembrance, we grieve. We give voice to the 6 million Jews who were systematically targeted, murdered by the Nazis and their collaborators during World War Two. We honor the memory of victims, the pain of survivors, the bravery of heroes who stood up to Hitler's unspeakable evil. And we recommit to heading and heeding the lessons at one of the darkest chapters in human history to revitalize and realize the responsibility of never again, never again, simply translated from me, means never forget, never forget. Never forgetting means we must keep telling the story, must keep teaching the truth, must keep teaching our children and our grandchildren. The truth is, we are at risk of people not knowing the truth. That's why growing up, my dad taught me and my siblings about the horrors of the Shoah. At our family dinner table. That's why I visited Yad Vashem with my family as a senator, as vice president, and as president. And that's why I took my grandchildren to Dachau so they could see and bear witness to the perils of indifference, the complicity of silence in the face of evil that they knew was happening. Germany, 1933 Hitler and his Nazi Party rise to power by rekindling one of the world's oldest forms of prejudice and hate, anti-Semitism. His role didn't begin with mass murder. It started slowly across economic, political, social and cultural life. Propaganda demonizing Jews, boycotts of Jewish businesses, synagogues to face with swastikas, harassment of Jews in the street and schools, anti-Semitic demonstrations, pogroms, organized riots with the indifference of the world, Hitler knew he could expand his reign of terror by eliminating Jews from Germany to annihilate Jews across Europe through genocide. The Nazis call the Final Solution concentration camps, gas chambers, mass shootings. By the time the war ended, 6 million Jews, one out of every three Jews in the entire world, were murdered. This Asian hatred of Jews didn't begin with. The Holocaust didn't end with the Holocaust, either. Or after. Even after our victory in World War two, this hatred continues to lie deep in the hearts of too many people in the world and requires our continued vigilance and outspokenness. That hatred was brought to life on October 7th. In 2023, on a sacred Jewish holiday. The terrorist group Hamas unleashed the deadliest day of the Jewish people since the Holocaust, driven by ancient desire to wipe out the Jewish people off the face of the earth. Over 1200 innocent people babies, parents, grandparents slaughtered in a kibbutz, massacred at a music festival, brutally raped, mutilated and sexually assaulted thousands more carrying wounds. Borrowed some shrapnel from the memory of that terrible day they endured. Hundreds taken hostage, including survivors of the Shoah. Now here we are, not 75 years later, but just seven and a half months later, and people are already forgetting. They're already forgetting that Hamas unleashed this terror. That was Hamas, a brutalized Israelis. It was Hamas who took and continues to hold hostages. I have not forgotten, nor have you. And we will not forget. As Jews around the world still cope with the atrocity and trauma of that day and its aftermath, we've seen a ferocious surge of antisemitism in America and around the world, vicious propaganda on social media. Jews forced to keep their hide, their keepers under baseball hats, tuck their Jewish stars into their shirts. On college campuses, Jewish students blocked, harassed, attacked while walking to class. Antisemitism, anti-Semitic posters, slogans calling for the annihilation of Israel, the world's only Jewish state. Too many people denying, downplaying rash lies and ignoring the horrors of the Holocaust. And October 7th, including Hamas's appalling use of sexual violence to torture and terrorize Jews. It's absolutely despicable, and it must stop silence. Silencing the vile can hide much, but it can erase nothing. Some adjusted is so heinous, so graphic, so grievous. They cannot be married, buried no matter how hard people try. In my view, a major lesson of Holocaust is, as mentioned earlier, it's not always not inevitable. We know hate never goes away. It only hides, given a little oxygen and comes off one of the rocks. We also know it stops hate one thing all of us. Later, Rabbi Jonathan Sacks described antisemitism as a virus that survived and mutated over time. Together, we cannot continue to let that happen. We have to remember our basic principles as a nation. We have an obligation obligation. We have an obligation to learn the lessons of history. So we don't surrender our future to the horrors of the past. We must give hate no safe harbor against anyone, anyone. From the very founding, our very founding Jewish Americans. Representative. Only about 2% of the U.S. population have helped lead cause of freedom for everyone in our nation. From that experience, we know scapegoating and demonizing any minority is a threat to every minority. And the very foundation of our democracy. So moments like this, I have to put these principles and we're talking about into action. I understand people have strong beliefs and deep convictions about the world in America. I respect and protect the fundamental right to free speech. To debate, disagree. To protest peacefully and make our voices heard. I understand that's America. But there is no place on any campus in America, or any place in America for anti-Semitism or hate speech or threats of violence of any kind. Whether against Jews or anyone else, violent attacks, destroying property. It's not peaceful protest. It's against the law. And we are not a lawless country. We're a civil society. We oppose the rule of law. And no one should have to hide to be brave. Just to be themselves. The Jewish community didn't want you to know. I see your fear. You're hurting your pain. Let me reassure you. As you're president, you're not alone. You belong. You always have, and you always will. And my commitment to the safety of the Jewish people, the security of Israel and its right to exist as an independent Jewish state is ironclad, even when we disagree. My administration is working around the clock to free remaining hostages, just as we have freed hostages already. And we will not rest until we bring them all home. My administration, with our second generals leadership, has launched our nation's first national strategy to counter antisemitism. That's mobilizing the full force of the federal government to protect Jewish community. But what we know is not to work for government alone or Jews alone. That's why I'm calling on all Americans to stand united against antisemitism and hate in all its forms. My dear friend, who became a friend of the late Ellie Whitesell, said, quote, one person of integrity can make a difference. We have to remember that now more than ever here in Emancipation Hall, the U.S. Capitol. Among the towering statue to history is a bronze bust of role Walmart. Born in Sweden as a Lutheran. He was a businessman, a diplomat, all stationed in Hungary He used diplomatic cover to hide and rescue about 100,000 Jews over a six month period. Among them was a 16 year old Jewish boy who escaped a Nazi labor camp. After the war ended. A boy received a scholarship from the Hallel Foundation to study in America. He came to New York City penniless, but determined to turn his pain into purpose. Along with his wife, also a Holocaust survivor, he became a renowned economist and foreign policy thinker, eventually making his way to this very capital on the staff of a first term senator. That Jewish refugee was Tom Lantos, and that Senator was made. Tom and his wife Annette and their family became dear friends to me and my family. Tom would go on to become the only Holocaust survivor ever elected to Congress, for became a leading voice on civil rights and human rights around the world. Tom never met Raul, who was taken prisoner by the Soviets. Never to be heard from again, but through Tom's efforts, rolls Busters here in the Capitol. He was also given honorary U.S. citizenship, only the second person ever, after Winston Churchill. The Holocaust Museum here in Washington is located in a rural road in Ralls, named the story of the power of a single person. To put aside our differences, to see our common humanity, to stand up to hate, and its ancient story of resilience from immense pain and persecution. To find hope, purpose and meaning in life. We try to live and share with one another. That story endures. Let me close with this. I know these days when members fall on difficult times. We all do well to remember. These days also fall during the month. We celebrate Jewish American heritage, a heritage that stretches from our earliest days to enrich every single part of American life. Today, great Americans, great Jewish American and Tom Lantos used the phrase the veneer of civilization is paper thin. We are its guardians, and we can never rest. My fellow Americans, we must. We must be those guardians. We must never rest. Must rise against hate, meet across the divide, share our common humanity and God bless the victims and survivors of Shoah and the resilient hearts. A courageous spirit and eternal flame of faith of the Jewish people forever shine their light on America and around the world. Pray God, thank you all.
</doc>