<video_id>lQLlo89kaco</video_id>
<video_title>Biden: Hamas attack on Israel is ‘an act of sheer evil’</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Biden Hamas attack on Israel is ‘an act of sheer evil’.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231010</publish_date>

<doc>
We're watching President Biden as he approaches the podium at the White House. Good afternoon. Listen to his remarks. You know, there are moments in this life I I mean this literally when the pure, unadulterated evil is unleashed on this world. The people of Israel live through one such moment this weekend. Bloody hands of the terrorist organization, Hamas group, whose stated purpose for being is to kill Jews This was an act of sheer evil. More than 1000 civilians slaughtered, not just kill, slaughtered in Israel. Among them, at least 14 American citizens killed, parents butchered, using their bodies to try to protect their children. Stomach churning reports of babies being killed. Entire families slain. Young people massacred while attending a musical festival. To celebrate peace. To celebrate peace. Women raped, assaulted, paraded as trophies. Families hid their fear for hours and hours, desperately trying to keep their children quiet. To avoid drawing attention And thousands of wounded. Alive. But carrying with them the bullet holes and the shrapnel wounds. And the memory of what they endured. You all know these traumas never go away. There's still so many families desperately waiting to hear the fate of their loved ones. Not knowing if they're alive. Or dead. Or hostages. Infants in their mother's arms. Grandparents in wheelchairs. Holocaust survivors abducted and held hostage. Hostages whom Hamas has now threatened execute in violation of every code of human morality. It's abhorrent. The brutality of Hamas is blood thirsty and is brings to mind the worst the worst rampages of vices. This is terrorism. But sadly for the Jewish people, it's not new. This attack is brought to the surface. Painful memories. The scars left by a millennium, antisemitism and genocide. The Jewish people So in this moment, we must be crystal clear. We stand with Israel. And we will make sure, as has what it needs to take care of its citizens, defend itself and respond to this attack. There's no justification for terrorism. There's no excuse Hamas does not stand for the Palestinian people's right to dignity and self-determination. Stated purpose is annihilation of the state of Israel. On the murder of Jewish people They use Palestinian civilians as human shields. Mass offers nothing but terror and bloodshed with no regard to who pays the price The loss of innocent life is heartbreaking. Like every nation in the world. Israel has the right to respond and deed has a duty to respond to these vicious attacks. I just got off the phone with the third called Prime Minister Netanyahu. I told him the United States experience is an experience in our response to be swift, decisive and overwhelming. We also discussed how democracies like Israel and United States are stronger and more secure when we act according to the rule of law. Terrorist purposely target civilians kill them. We uphold the laws of war, law of war. It matters. There's a difference Today, Americans across the country are praying for all those families who have been ripped apart. A lot of us know how it feels. It leaves a black hole in your chest when you lose family feeling like you're being sucked in. The anger the pain the sense of hopelessness This is what they mean by a human tragedy, an atrocity on an appalling scale. We're going to continue to stand united, supporting the people of Israel who are suffering unspeakable losses and opposing the hatred and violence of terrorism. My team has been in near-constant communication with our Israeli partners and partners all across the region and the world. From the moment this crisis began. We're charging additional military assistance, including ammunition and interceptors to replenish Iron Dome. We're going to make sure that Israel does not run out of these critical assets to defend its cities and its citizens. My administration has consult closely with Congress throughout this crisis. When Congress returns, we're going to ask them to take urgent action to fund the national security requirements of our critical partners. This is not about party or politics. This is about the security of our world, security of the United States of America. We now know that American citizens are among those being held by Hamas I've directed my team to share intelligence and deploy additional expertize from across the United States government to consult with and advise Israeli counterparts in hostage recovery recovery efforts. Because as president, I have no higher priority than the safety of Americans being held hostage around the world. The United States has also enhanced our military force posture in the region to strengthen our deterrence. The Department of Defense has moved the USS Gerald Ford carrier strike group, the Eastern Mediterranean, and bolstered our fighter aircraft presence. And we stand ready to move in additional assets as needed Let me say again to any country, any organization, anyone thinking of taking advantage of the situation, I have one word don't don't Hearts may be broken, but our resolve is clear. Yesterday, I also spoke with the leaders of France, Germany, Italy and U.K. to discuss the latest developments with our European allies and coordinate our united response This comes on top of days of steady engagement with partners across the region. We're also taking steps at home in cities across the United States of America. Police departments have stepped up security around centers of Jewish life The Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation are working closely with state and local law enforcement and Jewish community partners to identify and disrupt any domestic threat that could emerge in connection with these horrific attacks. This is a moment for the United States to come together to grieve with those who are mourning Let's be real clear. There is no place for hate in America, not against Jews, not against Muslims. Not against anybody. We reject. What we reject is terrorism. We condemn the indiscriminate evil just we have always done. That's what America stands for. You know, just over 50 years ago, I was thinking about this morning talk from the secretary of state, the vice president in my office over 50 years ago. As a young senator, I visited Israel for the first time as a newly elected senator, and I had a long, long trip meeting with Goldman in her office just before the Yom Kippur War. I guess you could see the consternation on my face as she described what was being faced. She knew they were facing walked outside in that sort of hallway outside her office to have some photo. She looked at me all of a sudden, said, Would you like to have a photograph? And so I got up and followed her out here, standing there silent, looking at the press. You could tell, I guess I was concerned. She leaned over and whispered to me. She said, Don't worry, Senator Biden, we have a secret weapon here in Israel. My word is what she said. We have no place else to go. For 75 years is also the only guarantor security of Jewish people around the world. So the atrocities of the past could never happen again. Let there be no doubt the United States has Israel's back. We will make sure the Jewish democratic state of Israel can defend itself today, tomorrow, as we always have to. Simple as that. These atrocities sickening We're with Israel Just make no mistake. Thank you. Mr. President, what was your reaction on the ground?
</doc>