<video_id>czQWZAaWlHA</video_id>
<video_title>Blinken gives update on release of 2 American hostages held by Hamas</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Blinken gives update on release of 2 American hostages held by Hamas.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231020</publish_date>

<doc>
We welcome the release. We share in the relief that their families, friends and loved ones are feeli But there are still ten additional Americans who remain unaccounted for in this conflict. We know that some of them are being held hostage by Hamas, along with an estimated 200 other hostages held in Gaza. They include men, women, young boys, young girls, elderly people from many nations. Every single one of them should be released since the early, early start of this crisis. The president has made clear that he will do everything possi to secure the release of every h During my own recent travel to the region, I emphasized the urgency and importance of this to the United States and pressed our partners to do everything they can to help us secure the release. Since that time, we continue to work relentlessly with partners to do just that. I can't speak publicly about the details of these effor and I know you understand that. But the urgent work to free every single American, to free all other hostages continues, as does our work to secure the safe passage out o for the Americans who are trappe In this particular instance, I want to thank the government o for their very important assista When I was in Israel last week, I met with the families of U.S. citizens that Hamas has taken ho President Biden, too, had the opportunity to hear directly from the famili Its impossible to adequately put into words the their feeling of not knowing the fate of their loved ones, wearing relentlessly about them for their safety, for their security, for their we No family anywhere should have to experience this t What I share with the families, as the president did as well, is that the entire United States government will work every minut of every day to secure their rel to bring their loved ones home. They have my solemn pledge those who continue to have loved held hostage by Hamas that will continue to do that. Working. As though these family members were our own. With that and having a few quest Mr. Secretary. So thanks for coming down, Mr. Smith. Mr. Secretary, I'm just. You said you wouldn't talk about specific details, but I'm wondering, you did thank the government of  and I'm wondering, since you wer and they have an office, they host the Hamas offi If you could elaborate a little  on what their role was and if you continue to think tha that channel there, them having an office the is worthwhile. And then secondly, a lot has been made by you, by the president, by other officials about how it is important for Israel o if and when it begins a ground i into Gaza for it to respect the rules of war internationally. And I'm curious if you think tha even before that ground incursion has starte if Israel is respecting those rules and laws. Thank you. Matt, thanks for the questions. You'll understand that because this is an ongoing effor an ongoing effort to get Americans who are hostage in thi in Gaza out to secure their release, to get them back with their fami I really can't go into any detai what we're doing, how we're doin And all I can say with regard to Qatar is in this instance, we very much appreciate their as Beyond that, I really can't I really can't say because, again, we want to focus on making sure that we're getting those who remain hostage back home and with their loved ones. That's the single most important with regard to how Israel is conducting its ope I think you've heard the preside speak to this very clearly. You've heard me We've said we believe strongly that Israel has not only the rig but the obligation to defend itself against what it it's very hard to put in the wor the nature, the barbarity of the And they really do have the obli to defend themselves against it, to do whatever they can to try to make sure that this doesn't happen again. But we've been very clear as wel that the way Israel does this ma And in particular, it's important that operations be conducted in accordance with international law, humanita the law of war as applicable, and that everything be done to minimize the loss of civilian And we continue to focus on that just as we're also focusing on getting assistance into people in Gaza who who need There will be plenty of time to make assessmen about how these operations were conducted. But I can just say for the part of the United States that this continues to be important to us. And again, it's what distinguishes us, distinguishes  from terrorist groups like Hamas which not only have absolutely no concern for for innocent human life. They intentionally use innocent human lives to hide beh to use as quite literally as human shields, knowing that c invariably are going to suffer i in conflict. Thank you, Secretary. Just following up on that, a Ham has issued a statement through Abu Zubaydah. And I know with the huge caveat that it's a terror group and one is not attach credibility to that. But they have said that all the hostages, the civil hostage, which include the Americans, could be released, that this could be the start of something bigger if there are no airstrikes. Would this be a moment where if it's under Israel's discretion, obviously it would be wise to pause, to give it more time to see if this is a moment since the ground invasion is not Should even the airstrikes be st To see if you could get more peo And it was notable, without going into details that in the president's statemen he said he expressed his thanks to Israe to Qatar, rather, in partnership with Israel. A notable connection there. The obvious inference is that they were working together on this. Does this give you hope that despite everything that's happen that there could still be a broader relationship and avoid a wider war? Thanks, Andrea. So two things there. First, it's very simple. Hostages should be released imme and unconditionally. That's been our position from da It remains our position. And to your point, I would not take anything that Hamas says at face value. I'm not sure anyone in this room would take at face value or repo something that ISIS had said. Same applies to to Hamas. Our position is clear. Every hostage needs to be releas and needs to be released. Now, there is no doubt from my own my own travels in th that one of the important things throughout this this very difficult period and since the attack, the unconscionable attack by Ham is to continue to find ways for countries to cooperate, coor when it's in their interests to  And we'll continue to look to th Any cooperation that that we can that facilitates the release of  any cooperation that we can elic That secures the provision of humanitarian assistance to the men, women and children i who would so desperately need it We work on that every day. And I think we can say that we've seen some of that cooperat The broader question, though, I think, is usually important, because what's abundantly clear  the vast majority of countries, the vast majority of people want the same thing They want a region where countries are working toge where relations are normalized, where there's greater integratio where people are working together, studying together, traveling, doing business. Overwhelming majority of people want that. And we want to see as well the rights and aspirations of the Palestinian people fulfilled in the context of that of region. And that's one vision. And it remains very much alive in every conversation. Tha The alternative is equally clear and it's very stark. It's Hamas. It's Hezbollah. It's Iran. It's destruction. It's death. It's terrorism. It's darkness. So the more we are able to make  that first vision the more I'm convinced that that's the vision that everyone or virtually everyone will subsc So even as we are working through this challenge, this crisis, it's important to keep that vision alive, because it's important that peop that there is an alternative and that everything that they ho and that they aspire to is going to be best addressed through what I've just described that first vision. We'll continue to do that. Jennifer, Mr. Secretary, what can you tell us about the condition of these two Americans who have been released? What is their their health statu And do you have any details on the condition of the American who are being held hostage Have you seen any proof of life  And then on the Rafah crossing, what is the holdup in operationalizing this deal? And will we see it open this wee I can't speak to the condition of the two host who were just released. First, out of respect for their  Second, because we haven't had a chance  Maybe it's happening as we speak To get our own team in there to to see them, to to evaluate them and most import to reunite them with their loved So I'm sure that will that that'll come out in the in the hours, certainly days ahe But I don't have anything for yo on that now, nor do I have anything for you o the status of or condition of Am who continue to be held by by Ha with regard to the to the Rafah  As you know, when some of us were traveling togeth in the region over the past week getting assistance moving was among my top priorities. And we worked very hard with the government of Israel, the government of Egypt to do ju And we secured an understanding  we would develop a plan to move assistance. That understanding was cemented by President Biden when he was in Israel and also speaking to President el-Sisi of Egypt. In the time since we've been wor relentlessly with Ambassador Dav Satterfield on the ground, working with the United Nations, with Egypt, with Israel to put that into motion. And my expectation is that you'll see that moving s
</doc>