<video_id>qTvFuNNVwnA</video_id>
<video_title>Bolton says ICC actions show it’s not ‘tethered to rule of law itself’</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Bolton says ICC actions show it’s not ‘tethered to rule of law itself’.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240521</publish_date>

<doc>
Tonight, President Biden is openly rebuking the International Criminal Court prosecutor for seeking an arrest warrant against both Hamas's and the leader in the Israeli Prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, for what they say are war crimes. Let me be clear. We reject the ICC application for arrest warrants against Israeli, whatever these warrants may imply. There is no equivalence between Israel and Hamas. Contrary to allegations against Israel made by the International Court of Justice, what's happening is not genocide. We reject that. That is a notable comment from President Biden there, flatly rejecting accusations that there's a genocide underway in Gaza. I should note those accusations which have been made in the International Court of Justice are separate from today's actions in the International Criminal Court, which seeks to hold individual Hamas and Israeli leaders both accountable. The ICC chief prosecutor, Karim Khan, convened a group of legal experts that also included the human rights attorney, Amal Clooney, to advise on these warrants. He defended this in an exclusive interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour. Nobody is above the law. No people, by dint of birth or passport, religion, nationality or the color of their skin, how they get out of jail free card, have a free pass to say what the law doesn't apply to us. Every human life, every baby that is killed, whether it's a baby that's cruelly abducted by Hamas and killed or a baby that's been bombed or killed or has died in incubators because of no electricity or water or food in Gaza for them, for their families and for humanity, humanity. It's a tragedy. And this is why we have a court. It's about the equal application of the law. Here tonight to discuss, John Bolton, the former national security adviser under former President Donald Trump, also the former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Ambassador Bolton, first. Let me get your reaction to what we heard from President Biden. He had a pretty blunt rebuke of what we just heard there from the chief prosecutor at the ICC. And this idea that they are going to seek these warrants for both the leaders of Hamas, but also the Israeli prime minister and the defense minister. Well, Biden is half right. What's really illegitimate here is the International Criminal Court itself. It's a fantasy. It's a piece of government, not a whole government, a piece of government floating around in the international ether, unchecked by executive or legislative power, utterly unable to enforce its judgments and acting in a way that's predictably irresponsible. For many years, people have referred to Israel as the canary in the coal mine on behalf of the United States. This is another example, because what this rogue prosecutor, this utterly unaccountable court is doing here against Israel, they're going to do against us soon enough. Well, so what do you mean? That the President Biden is half right. He was he's basically agreeing with you that both of you agree this is it's wrong to say that you're going to go after the leaders of Hamas and also the Israeli leaders and kind of create this equivalence between the two of them. No, I'm saying it's wrong to go after and this court is not the body to prosecute anybody. The court has also indicted Vladimir Putin in connection with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. That's the wrong way to do it, too. You can't the the the charge of moral equivalence gives legitimacy to the court. In effect, if they indict really bad guys, they're in favor of it. And the fact is, it's the court itself that's fundamentally flawed. The example is right here in this case, this unaccountable prosecutor is interfering right in the middle of active conflict now in a real government with real power. In our case, the president has both the war power and the prosecution power and sometimes has to make a trade off. This utterly unaccountable prosecutor didn't make any trade off at all. And I think people should ask, does this now make settling the conflict in the Middle East easier or harder? It won't matter to the prosecutor because he'll never be held responsible for it. Yeah, and obviously, you mentioned Putin there and he's not really traveling a lot maybe to China or something, but. But what does this move mean if they do get the judges to sign off all these warrants? And we don't know that they will. But but if they do and they're executed, what does that mean for Israel's allies who are parties to this court and they're technically supposed to to arrest them if they travel and they have an ICC warrant? Well, it should be a wake up call to them that they've stepped into a very dangerous territory here. And I think this is the sort of thing that that US officials need to worry about in particular. You know, the one silver lining in this cloud, when you look at the self-righteous, grandstanding, publicity seeking prosecutor there, I think this is the ICC digging its grave in this country. I think I would be happy to predict right here. I don't think the US is going to join the ICC within within the life span of anybody watching this program because the targets of this prosecutor are fundamentally irrational to proceed against a free, law abiding democratic society in the way that it did. Shows it's not tethered to a rule of law itself. But, Ambassador, when you look at this, there is growing criticism of how Israel has conducted this war. I mean, do you believe that Israel has upheld international law since October 7th? I haven't heard legitimate charges that it hasn't. And I think there's been a lot of hype propaganda. One very important point, just to prove that there's a lot of United Nations, the United Nations, the Palestinians. Well, okay, let's let's talk let's talk about that. The United Nations just cut in half the number of women and children it reports killed in the Gaza conflict. Now, this is the United Nations accepting now the figures of the Hamas ministry of Health as opposed to the Hamas information office. But the fact is the total number of casualties and the number, particularly of women and children killed has been out of whack. The U.N. by its shift concedes that numbers that have been used on women and children have been double what what, what even another part of Hamas says and I think this is a media problem, too, if I may say so, you know, these numbers have come from Hamas entities right from the start of this. And normally what media outlets do when they're given a fact like that, they think it's important enough to report that's fine. They then go on to say, we have not been able to verify this independently. Well, Ambassador, were any media outlets in the country because that is verified those numbers. We have been deeply skeptical of the numbers because we they don't let free and independent journalists go. And CNN is tried on multiple occasions. But while even if you are skeptical of that figure, as we've seen, even President Biden expressed skepticism, we do know that a lot of women and children and Palestinian civilians have been killed. Have they been colluding with Hamas? Do you have any information on that? Palestinian babies? Can women collude with Hamas? Can women collude with Hamas little children that we're seeing, Ambassador, who were in hospital early 16 or 16 inside this on this 16, 17 year old, four years old. All right. Let's let's take that fun. Let's let's take that. The question in conflict in urban conflict, which the United States itself has faced as recently as Iraq with Fallujah and Mosul, is is Israel targeting legitimate military targets A and B, has it taken into account the proportional collateral effects if it goes after those targets? There's no prohibition about civilian casualties, otherwise you wouldn't have urban conflict. And the studies that were done of American action in Fallujah and Mosul and other places in Iraq and Afghanistan have shown ratios of civilian to military casualties in the range of 5 to 1 in Gaza by Hamas's own statistics. The range is 2 to 1. So I just think it's important to understand that when Hamas cynically barbaric uses its own population as human shields, the morally culpable party here is Hamas, and no one is defending Hamas. It's a good conversation to have. Ambassador John Bolton, thank you for your time tonight. Glad to do it.
</doc>