<video_id>6gpi9S7P_c8</video_id>
<video_title>Brother of released American hostage speaks out</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Brother of released American hostage speaks out.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231021</publish_date>

<doc>
Freed. You're looking at a picture of American Jew the tyrant on and her 17 year old daughter Natalie Raanan shortly after they were released by Hama But two from Chicago are in Isra after being kidnaped 14 days ago The IDF says they were being hel in Hamas's network of tunnels and according to the secretary o Antony Blinken, a team from the  embassy is here to meet with the Now for their family has been an uni two weeks of anguish and grief and hope an The Iranians were visiting relat at the kibbutz of Carlos, which is just a couple of miles from Gaza. It was attacked by Hamas. 12 people reportedly killed during that assault that we know Earlier this week, I spoke to Natalie's brother Ben and he told me the terrifying st of how his sister and stepmother were taken She communicated with my father in Hebrew that she was okay for the moment She was locking herself in the guest house, I believe, with my stepmother, J They were hearing guns. They were hearing explosions, and they were going to try and r as quiet as possible. From there, once the Israeli arm was able to take back the city, there was a broken glass on the  of the guest house. And both Natalie and Judith were at that point. So at that time, Ben told me he was holding out hope, holding out this the hope that he would again hug his sister. And that is something that he is going to be able to d You just have to smile to hear a I mean, it is two people out of  but it is two people alive and f Natalie will turn 18 in four day In just a moment, Ben will join  live again. It was President Biden who spoke with both of the women Judith and Natalie says he's overjoyed at the news. But of course, we're learning to there are still ten Americans unaccounted for. That is in addition to the 201 people being held by Hamas at this hour According to the numbers, the Israeli government has put o And tonight, we're learning more about them, according to the Israeli Defense Over 20 of them were children under the age of 18. Want to speak to the father of two of those later. Between ten and 20 of them are o But the IDF believes that the majority of them are al in Gaza. One family this morning told me what we don't know if maturity means just over half or almost all. But that's the most information the IDF has given out is the word majority. But shortly after the runoff is  Hamas released a statement claiming they are working with mediators in Egypt, Qatar and other, quote, friendly countries in order to release more foreign national hostages. We don't know very much about their current conditions. We only know we have that one supposed proof of life video. We don't know when that was filmed of Mia Sham. And we also now have the picture of Judith and Natalie. We do know that any hostages in  right now are being held captive in a place facing a humanitarian We have a lot to get to tonight. Nic Robertson is live along the Israel-Gaza border. M.J. Lee is at the White House, and Clarissa Ward is live in Cai Egypt tonight. Oren Liebermann is live at the P with breaking news on that battl Those missiles fired towards Isr I want to start with Nic Robertson, because, Nic, I know there was a lot of activity wher when the two hostages were relea What exactly happened Yeah, absolutely fascinating, Er because throughout the day, it had been really exceptionally and quieter than it's been for so many days. No missiles and rockets coming out of Gaza, no missiles  and not even any drones in the a Really quiet. And it gave the impression, just the impression that something was happening in the background today that was different. We had no id But just just as that news was c that Natalie and her mother, Judith, were being released. Hamas or one of the other groups inside Gaza launched a massive salvo of rockets right at that time headed towards central Israel. The Iron Dome intercepted them within an hour. They done it again, fired multiple rockets towards the center of Israel. They were intercepted again. And in that intervening hour, they fired five salvos into this area and s That is way more than they fired in an hour period that we've seen over the past we So kind of a significant turn in action by by Hamas right at that moment of release. Was it a signal that they just w that they were ready to continue to fight? Or was it a sign that they've been able to use th when they weren't under fire and drone surveillance and to set up some rockets? It's not clear, but that was such a dramatic change of events The Israelis returned with some artillery strikes, so missile strikes. But again, now back to that or of sort of quieter than it ha Erin, All right, Nic, thank you very m And I want to go to M.J. Lee at the White House, because, M.J., we were we were saying Biden has spoken now to both Judith and Natalie. What more have you learned from your sourc about how this happened from the American side and what' Yeah, Aaron, the White House says that Presid had this message to convey to the two women when he spoke with them earlier that the two women would have the full support of the US government as they recover from what he sai was this terrible ordeal. And there's no question that this is a moment of triumph for this president, who had said that as president there was no higher priority for than securing the release of these American hostages. But there is no question that the work is not over. Secretary of State Antony Blinken saying tonight that there are at least ten Americans unaccounted for and that some of them are being held hostage. He couldn't say anything about the condition of those American hostages. But Aaron, it is very, very clea that U.S. officials worked closely with their Israeli counterparts to gather any intelligence that they could about these American hostages. We know that it was the Israelis that told us officials that some Americans were believed to be alive. We also know that there was clos coordination with Qatar, both President Biden and Secretary Blinken sayi thank you to their Qatari counte after the release of these two w But, Aaron, it just worth underscoring that given the sensitivities and given the ongoing efforts to try to try to secure the rele of more hostages, U.S. officials right now are very loa to share any detailed informatio about how exactly Judith and Natalie Ronan's release was able to be secured All right, M.J., thank you very  And Natalie's brother, Judy, his stepson, Ben Raanan, is OUTFRONT now and he is speaking for the famil tonight. So, Ben, we talked days ago and you know, you're talking about your sister and how she wanted. She loved art. And she you know, she she wants to be a tattoo artist  And you were praying you have the chance to hug her a and wow, what a night. I mean, how did you find out you and your stepmother were freed I found out from the news this all moved so quickly that I was getting texts from re I met with saying this happened and I belie because the government didn't want to call us before it had been confirmed. And it was just a surreal thing. I was taking the first 2 hours o before I jumped on all of these  that I've been doing for Natalie just for myself. And I was playing a video game, and all of a sudden, I'm getting all these texts that, you know, they're coming b Oh, my gosh. That is incredible to find out t And I think, Ben, it just makes everyone realize t they had no idea of what happene or just, as you said, comes together at the last When you see the picture that just the one picture that w of Natalie and Judith and obviously you know them better than anyone What do you see when you look at To be honest, I'm super annoyed because how does my sister, after two weeks as a hostage, still look like a supermodel? It's exhausting. And meanwhile, she does, by the  She does, by the way. It's absurd. You know, my father got a chance to talk with Natali and I know Judith's family got a chance to talk with Judith at least from my father. Natalie is doing well. Is composed. And as I said to you a couple of days ago, we are ready to start this incre journey of healing and trauma relief for And, you know, she has a full support of friends and family. And you know what I've realized is strangers who care about her, who want her to succeed at whate she wants to do to you. Do you have any idea, Ben, at th I mean, I I'm sure you don't technically k but I mean, do you have any even or have you thought to yourself about why it is that Natalie and Judith were released first? Why them not anyone else yet? I mean, do you have any sense as to how that's the case? I don't know. You know, what I do know is that you know what I told you that they're not politicians. They're not people with intense  about Gaza, Palestine, Israel. they are Israelis and they are l and they are people lovers. And so I truly believe it was something to do with that And it's important for me to also say that that there are people h who are hostages that didn't get the same beautif that that my family got today. And there are families all over in Gaza and in Israel that are experiencing a loss tha I can't even imagine. And I just you know, my family j No, no, I know I can only imagine there's a sense of guilt, too. I was talking to a father who's still missing his little girls, two and four. And I asked him how he felt about this news. And he said, I just miss my children so much. But of course, I'm so glad for y Right? I mean. Right. But there's this right there's a deep sense of grief still for so many. Do you know when when you're when you'll be able to speak wit I we have heard tentatively she might be coming  Chicago sometime early next week But that's all dependent, obviou on what the hospitals say and ma that their physical well-being a their mental health well-being is at least okay for them to come here and s next stage.
</doc>