<video_id>IX2lBOesLO4</video_id>
<video_title>Cheers erupt as Red Cross convoy passes through Rafah crossing</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Cheers erupt as Red Cross convoy passes through Rafah crossing.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231124</publish_date>

<doc>
Just to speak to the significance of what it means here in Israel. Everywhere you go, you see the fliers of these hostages, the ones that you see in the U.S. and London and other countries. And you can see there, that is the convoy. We don't know who's inside this convoy, but you can see, John, that convoy making its way through the Rafah crossing that is a crossing between Gaza and Egypt right now. You can hear cheers and horns honking on again. We're looking at pictures right now from the Rafah crossing of a convoy moving through with beeping and honking at the Red Cross convoy. We cannot know for certain who is part of that convoy right now, if the hostages are part of it. But you did hear some honking, some celebration there. Unclear to me exactly where that celebration would be coming from if it was the Red Cross convoy carrying those hostages. But we are seeing that activity at Rafah right here, which will be a key transit point, Katelyn, for these hostages as they move through. And you brought up another point here. One of the things, the developments the twists today is not only has the number of hostages been turned over from Hamas to the Red Cross, believed to be Israeli hostages, but several Thai hostages, people from Thailand who had been held. We understand they've been turned over as well. And it's not completely clear if those two groups are traveling together or separate at this point, Kaitlin? Yeah, that is still something that we're trying to figure out. And this is a really fast moving process. I mean, it's taking time for them to get from place to place. But there are several different layers of government involved here, different governments that are involved in this process. This had been something that as we were hearing, as Israel and Hamas were getting closer to this deal, which was being negotiated by Qatar, that there were also questions of other governments also negotiating for their foreign nationals who were being held by Hamas in Gaza to also be released. You know, a lot of these that we had heard of that had been taken into into Gaza. The point of this and what we were hearing as we were talking about this from the ideological perspective is a lot of these were laborers who were at the kibbutz. And that is something that we heard, you know, when I went to kibbutz is a theme. They talked about the laborers who had just been been working there at that that particular kibbutz and the fact that they had also been taken hostage. Some of these are people who they're not Jewish they're not Israeli. Yet they were also taken by Hamas into Gaza. And so that is something we're watching with the numbers here, because that has been another critical part of this is that ultimately we're told it's 50 hostages that are being released. We got this additional information just a short time ago ago from Egyptian officials that these Thai nationals are also part of this. It is still a question of whether or not they are moving in this group together, whether all of them were in that convoy that we saw just passed through the Rafah crossing. Those are things that we'll have better clarity on once they've made it through. We do know Israel expects to publish a list of who has made it into Israel. Once those hostages have made it here. They said they will not do so beforehand. that we're watching very closely. I know CNN's international anchor Becky Anderson also tracking this closely. And Becky, you've been checking in with sources about the Thai nationals who are also being released by Hamas today. What else are you hearing about? Not just that, but also what we just saw happen, that convoy the Red Cross convoy passing That's right. They just left Gaza through that crossing and they will be making their way through that crossing on a few. If you were doing that as a normal individual, it would take some time to get through that crossing. But clearly, that Red Cross convoy will move very quickly through that crossing and into Egypt. As we understand it, this group of Israeli hostages are traveling in the same convoy as these Thai nationals, Thai nationals and their release was a separate and unconditional deal and struck. And separately from the hostage deal, Hamas, Israel, that was baked into this wider humanitarian pause. I did put this question about whether there was any separate tracks being negotiated by the country mediators to the spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Just yesterday, and he described this without answering the question specifically. He described this as a humanitarian effort. So I think what we can understand from that is that the Thai minister who was here in Doha a week or so ago, had successfully worked with the country mediation team with support from the Egyptians and others, including the United States. Of course, he's been very, very, very involved in what has been going on between Israel and Hamas. The Thais have been able to to pull off a separate and unconditional deal to ensure that some of those Thai nationals who got caught up in this workers at these at these kibbutzim have also been released. Now, I think we have to be very clear that we are not absolutely sure of the numbers as we understood it. We were looking at 12 Thai nationals to be released into ICR hands, ICRC hands today. And of course as we understood it, there will be 13 Israeli hostages released by Hamas as part of the main deal to be released into the hands of the ICRC. I think what we need to do now is just wait to see who is in those convoys as they leave Egypt and then make their way into Israel if indeed that is what the ties are doing. One probably make a sort of a loose assumption that everybody will be traveling together now into Israel, into the hands of the IDF. And we've been reporting all morning, haven't we, about the the sensitivities with which the IDF will be dealing with those Israeli hostages and specifically the and we have to assume that they've got we know that they got specific instructions about how to deal with the with the kids who've been, you know, through this traumatic ordeal. One can I mean, one can't even imagine it. I mean, I'm a mom, but you don't have to be a mom to to to try and imagine what it is that everybody's been through, not least these little kids. And we don't know who's being released, specifically the Thai authorities do know and who is released today in that group. But what we do know is that they are all traveling together in that convoy you've just seen go through the Rafah crossing from the Gaza side, traveling into the Egypt side and then into into Israel as assets things stand at the moment. Again, we've been saying this all morning. We're nearly 2 hours after what was the scheduled release of these hostages. This has happened a lot quicker, I think, than perhaps many people had anticipated. And, you know, that's a good thing. And obviously, now we just have to wait to see what happens when when when we get some sort of iSight on on these hostages as they are as they are delivered to the IDF and then obviously into the care of psychologists, hospital workers, medics, some are going to need treatment. We don't know whom we don't know how they are at this stage. But this is at least just seeing those scenes of that Red Cross convoy to cheers going through that border crossing it just suggests where we are at. This is the biggest diplomatic breakthrough since this conflict began. Let's remember just a couple of weeks ago, the UN Security Council finally got a resolution through asking pushing for not just one, but multiple humanitarian pauses at this stage. We have this one. It's four days plus an extension if Hamas are prepared to release more hostages. But let's just see how this goes today, whether all 25 hostages are indeed in that convoy, whether those numbers are sufficient to suggest that Hamas has fulfilled its obligations. We don't know that because we can't see who's in those convoys. But we do know that it was expected that there would be 13 Israeli hostages and 12 ties At this point, it is not clear how many people are in those calls.
</doc>