<video_id>8h7Raw-KFZE</video_id>
<video_title>Chris Christie on what he thinks is top priority in Israel-Hamas war</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Chris Christie on what he thinks is top priority in Israel-Hamas war.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231112</publish_date>

<doc>
Met with Israeli President Isaac Herzog t What can you tell us about your  and what was discussed Well, we discussed the current state of the war. We discussed American involvemen and support. We discussed the situation with the hostages that are being And we talked about the atrociti that I've been able to see first during my visit here today. And you've also been meeting wit as I understand, some survivors and family of those affected as well, right? Yeah, I met with I met with two  one young woman, 23 years old, shot in the bomb shelter who sur only because she was covered by other dead bodies. Yeah, I met with two families of hosta today. I have this dog tag for that 19  old young man who this family I met with tonig His his father has spent time in New Jersey, lived in New Jersey for a long t And, you know, those folks are s There was suffering there for 37 not knowing if their loved ones are alive or not knowing if they're being car It's a it's an extra ordinary si Yeah. We just we just spoke to a brother of so or someone who has a brother that is currently being held hos And he talked about how difficult it has been up to this point. Now, look, we are in the middle of this con and the fighting right now. But today on CNN, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as far as solutions for post fighting, push back on the idea of the Palestinian Authority run and said any solution, we need to have an overriding and overreaching Israeli military envelope. Do you agree with Prime Minister Netanyahu's assessment there? I mean, what what do you propose or think is going to happen here I think it's too early to make that determination I understand that the prime mini is focused exclusively now on th on degrading Hamas's ability to ever do this again, protecting the territorial integ and the safety and security of the people of Israel. But, look, I don't see any long line of fol looking to volunteer to take ove from Hamas. This is, I think, going to be a diplomatic solution that's going to need to be come  by all the interested parties at a time when the war is finally conclude But first and foremost, you have to protect the safety and security of the people of Is And you have to degrade Hamas because Hamas and believe me, I spent today spending 40 minute watching a video of the atrocities that were comm by Hamas that day. And I will tell you what struck me the most, Omar. It wasn't just the inhumanity of what they were doing Chopping off heads, burning peop But it was the joy they took in  They have video of one terrorist calling his mother saying your your son killed ten  with his own hands. Your son's a hero. As long as there are folks like  in Hamas who are focused on wipi Israel off the map and killing the Jewish people. Discussion of what happens in Ga after the war has to take a backseat at the mo to eliminating Hamas's ability to threaten the lives Again, And so, you know, the prime minister will have a lot of time to think about the postwar period when it comes But I think right now, task one is making sure that Ham has capabilities degraded and protecting the safety and security of the Israeli peop And that's among one of the multiple dynamics going on right now. Of course, there's a military campaign to to weed out and eliminate Hamas on the side of the IDF, but also trying to rescue some of these h I want to go back to a little bi After October 7th, you said less a little less than two week after the October 7th attack. You said providing aid to civili in Gaza was a very, very low pri and that the focus at that point needed to be on mi and financially helping Israel. Obviously, since then, we've seen a level of civilians killed by the thousands up to th Do you still believe humanitarian aid is a low priori in comparison to the Israeli military's needs? I still believe that, yes. I think if you're prioritizing those things, Omar, the most important thing is for us to provide financial assistance and military hardware to the Israelis so they can do what they need to do in Gaza regarding the terrorists who attacked them and killed over 1200 of their ci Now, no one likes civilian deaths of anyone, whether it's Israeli or Palestin But let's remember this. Two things. First, there was a cease fire on October 6th, Omar, and it was Hamas that broke that cease fire with their attacks on October 7t And secondly, Israel has done much to try to get Palestinians  from the area where the battle is going to be to the southern part of Gaza. It is Hamas that is refusing to let many of those people go to the southern part of Gaza because they want to use them as human shields. I believe that the that Hamas ca about Palestinian civilian life than Israel does. And so, you know, Hamas has to take responsibility for this. They could be helping their civilians significantly. And we saw a report just today that Israel said fuel to run the Al-Shifa hospital and that Hamas refused to accept You can't complain about not being able to run the incubators and the life support systems at a hospital and then turn down fuel that's being sent by the Israeli to be able to work those those pieces of equipment. So Hamas is the hypocrite here. And that's why I think the top priority has to be aidin so that we can put an end to thi as quickly as possible. And this this topic was posed to Minister Benjamin Netanyahu when he was on our air a little bit earlier today on the topic of whether they've been doing en to protect some of the civilians that have been killed or at least minimize the civilians that were killed. Take a listen to what he told Da We're trying to minimize civilian casualties as a result of our ground action I think the number of civilian c is actually being reduced because people are heeding our c to leave the area and defying Hamas's attempt to keep them the And we'll do everything in our p to do that. Now, even with that, Secretary o Antony Blinken has said far too many Palestinians have been kill with the secretary of state ther Well, I think that any loss of c life is tragic and should be avoided at all cos But, Omar, we need to make sure that Hamas cannot use these civi as a shield to prevent them from having their military capability degraded. They've shown on October 7th, in the days afterwards that they will use missiles. They will come by air, sea and l in an attempt to kill Israeli ci And we can't permit that to continue to happen. Omar, so, you know, this is this is always very, very diffic But I do believe that Israel is trying to do everything it can to avoid the loss of civilian li both in Gaza and in Israel. Now, here in the U.S., obviously, there's a budget figh that's it's really just beginnin as we head towards a government  But as far as the plan that was  the bills don't provide any funding for Israel or Ukrain Which you've also visited over the course of this past yea What message do you believe, aga not the final version, but still what message do you believe that these initial versions send our foreign allies Not a good one. Omar. And I think that candidly, we have to continue to play the  the world we've always played, because if we don't, the evil forces will fill in our vacuum that we  And I mean China, Russia, Iran and North Korea. And let me tell you, when I went to a military instal today, installation here today, I saw weapons that were from Nor Korea, weapons that were from Iran and  that were from Russia. If leaders in Congress don't understand that all of these things are con and that American dismissed all of our role in any of these  occur encourages more of them, not fewer of them. We need to send a very clear mes by supporting Israel and supporting Ukraine. And believe me, Vladimir Putin is happy about what's going on here in Is and in Gaza. Because he hopes that it will di certain American leaders who bel filling the moat and pulling up the drawbridge is the way that America should conduct itself. I believe exactly the opposite. We have to be able to lead the free world. It is the price we pay for being the richest and freest The world has ever known. And if we want to remain the ric and freest country the world's ever known, we have to engage with our allie around the world. That is always been the formula for American success, both at home and abroad. And any suggestion to the contra made by anyone in Congress or anywhere else in our politica is damaging America's standing in the world and damaging our future for succ
</doc>