
<doc>
According to the AFP, senior Israeli military officials have said aro two civilians have been killed. For every Hamas fighter that you have successfully killed in the Gaza  So that's two civilians for every terrorist. Can you confirm that? I can confirm the reports and I can say that if that is tr and I think that our numbers wil be corroborated. If you compare, though, that ratio to any other conflict in urban t between a military and a terrorist organized and using civilians as their human shield and embedd in the civilian population, you will find that that ratio is tremendous, tremendously positive and perhaps unique in the world. I understand that there are civilian casualties and understand that footage and coverage goes towards emotions and to to cover those civilian casualties. But what I want to say is that we will get those figure and they will be official and on record by the IDF with the name behind it. And then we will be able to say and to back up afterwards with names and numbers that we are indeed targeting the terrorists. We are not after the civilians and we are going into great effo in order to keep it that way. And it is it is, of course, hard to comprehend two for one. But when you say you're going to great efforts, Colonel, one of those efforts is those IDF directions, which I don't know when you actually plugged in, but I had shared with anyone watching at the top of the show the directions for evacuation. All right. So, you know, there's the QR cod And then if you click on can't r because there's a blackout. But if you were to click on it and you were to see where to go  in this urban area, a tiny little parcels block by block and numbers, I suppose it's hard to even read How do you really expect anybody to get that, to click on it to see it, which they can't do r now, again, because the blackout and then to follow the direction and to get somewhere safely. I mean, is that is that reasonab And I think, Aaron, that it may not be perfect, but it is the best thing that we And the situation is that for we we have designated a humanitaria and we have been asking civilian to go there. Unfortunately, civilians for various reasons, because they're under the control of Hamas, because the international aid organizations have channeled them there. Many other reasons have not yet gone through the humanitarian zone, which I think is very unfortunat The reason why we made that or designated that humanitarian  is because it's one of the few areas where Hamas isn't embedded above and below ground and therefore a relatively safe  because we would have no interes in fighting there because Hamas isn't there. And that's what we've been asking all along the attempt or what you showed on the map. And I can agree that it's not perfect, but by by the way, I contest the fact that there's a blackout because I saw lots of cameras ou when our hostages were being ret And I saw lots of live footage from those occasions as well. Well, tonight, though, tonight, though, there is I was actually going to intervie the spokesperson for the Red Cro We were unable to get communications, Colonel, for 45 minutes. I mean, there is a widespread blackout tonight. I've seen the spokesperson of UNICEF on CNN and every other living network. And I think that there isn't really such a blackout because obediently he has service and many others h And there's video coming out. Listen, I understand that it's not perfe but this is what we are trying t We're trying to reach out to Palestinians. We're trying to inform them ahead of time. We're fighting is going to be in for them to be able to take precautions a from where there is going to be  I don't know how else we can squ that circle of defeating Hamas where Hamas is and minimizing civilian casualti I think running with military experience has an idea. We're open for suggestions, but it has to square in defeatin not ceasing operations and letting Hamas win, but defeating Hamas and minimizing collateral or damage to civilians. Colonel, one final point on the blackout that that has been going on the past few hours and the Red Cross was there earl There was video earlier than thi And that's actually why we had the interview scheduled with the Red Cross. Then the blackout affecting most of Gaza has been in effect. Do you know if it's been resolve Do you know why it's in place? I am not aware of a blackout. I am aware of problems with coverage in local  There have been reports of it. But I see live streaming by a Palestinian propagandist from various areas, including from 20 minutes ago. I watched it live of a very known notorious Palestinian propagandi He was live on Tik-Tok. So there is why, if I may be not specifically with the Red Cross that you were speaking with, but I am factually aware that there is live Internet services in Gaza not perfect and not 5G Manhattan speed, but there definitely is internat in Internet service. Well, Colonel Conricus, I appreciate your time. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for having me.
</doc>