
<doc>
&gt;&gt;&gt; Tonight, CNN is getting a closer look at military operations in gaza. We reported under an escort at all times. At a condition, media outlets must submit footage filmed in gaza to the military for review. CNN did not submit its script to the idf and had editorial control over the final report. Let's bring in Oren Liebermann. Tell us what you saw. &gt;&gt; Reporter: Wolf, first, it's nearly impossible to get into gaza, so the chance to see what was happening was given to us by the idf who took us in with a tank about a mile in. Not only the progress they say they're making, but the challenges they face in a war that's very much hot. Through the breach, we entered northern gaza at the border crossing. The land once fertile farmland is baron. The trees that might have provided enemy cover is destroyed the in the distance, smoke from an Israeli air strike is a stark reminder these day 34 of a war that may stretch much longer. On Thursday, the idf chief of staff and head of internal security service entered gaza and promised strength through coop. Cooperation everyone is doing Everly just so you can be as strong as possible, the general said. Along our path, the signs of civilian life have given to the constant hum of drones. Our time at the coordination base for the border cross, first international media to visit the site, the terror attack was hit hard here, the scars of machine gun fire and rpgs still visible. The base was mostly empty on the holiday, but not entirely. Nine soldiers were killed here, and three kidnapped. It took 12 hours for Israel to gain control of the base. A Monday into the war, more than 10,000 Palestinians have been killed in Israeli attacks on gaza, according to hamas-controlled health ministry there. The idf says 35 soldiers have been killed in the strip since the start of the incursion. The October 7th attack killed more than 1400 people, mostly civilians. We stop at an overlook near the town of jabaliya. There's a meeting point of three different tunnels. That's one, two, three. They came together here and it let hamas move underground quickly below the feet and out of sight. Colonel tal says there were many explosive, many trencheses we found a storage site with many explosives. Even from a distance, the scale of destruction is stunning. Homes, neighborhoods decimated. Colonel tal says the area is nearly evacuated. We see sometimes terrorists, but the majority of civilians haven't been here for a while. As we talk, we hear rocket fire and see the trails of the launches triggering red alerts. About 90 minutes inside northern gaza, we hug the border wall for safety. Even here so close to the exit, we stop briefly to make sure the way ahead is safe. In the distance once again, the smoke from another strike. The idf spokesperson said the ground operation in gaza will only deepen as Israel has said it's largely encircled the city, and wolf, I also spoke with the commander about the humanitarian corridor we talked about so much earlier today. He said they're aware of the humanitarian corridor. He knows when it is and where it is. Even in the middle of the war, he knows you don't shoot in that direction, even as the war wages around them in other parts. &gt;&gt; Oren, thanks for that report. &gt;&gt;&gt; Joining me now to discuss all the news out of the middle East, the national security council coordinator for strategic communication, retired admiral John Kirby. Thanks for joining us. First, I said to get to the daily four-hour pauses now being reported in northern gaza to allow civilians to flee south. How will the pauses work? And have the Israelis fully committed to them? &gt;&gt; They have fully committed to them. The way it would work, about three hours before the pauses will begin, the Israelis will notify, through a variety of means, civilization, the pause will start, here is when, and advice on the safest passage out. They have added a second safe passage corridor, humanitarian corridor, they call it, out of northern gaza along the coast road. That's one more than they had before, in just the last few days. This is a step in the right direction. This could help reduivil usage casualties by giving people the confidence and time to move out of harm's way. &gt;&gt; John, is there really anywhere in gaza that's safe for Palestinian civilians? We're told almost half of them are children. &gt;&gt; Well, hamas is placing those children and those families in harm's way by tunnelling under their apartment complexes, using their hospitals and schools as command bunkers. They place them directly in harm's way between the idf and hamas. These safe corridors, and they pauses, this breathing space in time for people to get out should help alleviate some of the anxiety and the worry that
</doc>