<video_id>fKoVfMVLk7A</video_id>
<video_title>CNN video shows Palestinian detainees blindfolded and barefoot near Gaza border</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\CNN video shows Palestinian detainees blindfolded and barefoot near Gaza border.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240127</publish_date>

<doc>
A CNN team witnessed Israeli soldiers with Palestinian detainees who were blindfolded and barefoo UN human rights officials have previously urged Israel to end what they called the mistreatment of Palestinians which included the use of blindf CNN's Jeremy Diamond has this reporting for u and joins us now live. Jeremy, what did you learn? Well, Fred, my team and I were in southern Israel today near the border with Gaza, when suddenly we spotted more than two dozen men, some of them kneeling, some of them sitting on the grou with Israeli soldiers standing around them. We now know that these men were Palestinians detained by the Israeli military in Gaza and brought to Israel for further questioning. Now, if you look at the video he that we have, these men were bli they were barefoot. And keep in mind that it was about 50 degrees Fah during this day. And all they're wearing are these disposable white cover Their hands are tied behind thei And you can see that many of the are clearly physically exhausted their heads kind of nodding down, bobbing, swaying. One man was lying on the ground before an Israeli soldier comes to rouse him, propping him back up so that he can be sitting on the Now, the Israeli military told us this in a statement saying, quote, These are the individuals shown on camera are suspected of terrorist activity and were arrested in Gaza and transferred to Israel for further interrogation. Relevant suspects are taken for further questionin within Israel. Individuals who are found not to be taking part in terrorist activities are released back into Gaza as soon as possible. Now, they also addressed the con in which we found these detainee talking about the fact that they were wearing these white coveralls because they had been stripped, their clothing searched to ensure that they were not carrying weapons or explosives. And they said that they would be given clothing once they arrived at that detention facility. They also said that when we came across them that they were about to be put on a heated bus in order to be taken to that detention facility. We weren't able to see exactly how long these men were actually on the ground ther And that's because an Israeli soldier came to us and demanded that we leave the premises once he saw us filming. Now, as it relates to Israel's the Israeli military's claims he that these are terror suspects. It's important to note that we h while this is the first time that we have been able to unilaterally directly documen these detentions, there have been a lot of videos of Palestinian men and boys in Gaza detained by the Israeli military and in many cases, they have proven to be civilians They have been identified by their friends or relatives in videos as civilians. We also interviewed ten Palestinian men and boys back in December who said that they were arrested and detained by the Israeli mili for five days without charge before being ultimately released when they were released. Those men and boys had swollen wrists, bruises on their wrists, in some cases from the fact that their hands were tied behind their backs for the duration of that detenti Now, the Israeli military, for i insists that it proceeds with international law in all of these cases Fred. And then, Jeremy, separately, more countries are pausing funding for the United Nations relief agencies operating in Gaz The IDF said today that those facilities were used for terrorist purposes. What do you know about that? Yeah, that's right. The United Kingdom is now also j the United States in temporarily pausing funding t which is the main agency responsible for Palestinian refu But they have been playing, of course, a critical role in Ga right now, providing shelter, providing food and other humanitarian assistanc That is so desperately needed at this moment. But, of course, this all comes after these bombs allegations yesterday that 12 UNWRA staffers were invo in the October seven terrorist a carried out by Hamas. That's according to intelligence that Israel shared not only with the United States, but also with UNWRA directly. And following that information, UNWRA went on to fire some of those staffers. We don't know exactly how many,  they did say that they fired multiple staffers, in part because they want to ensure that humanitarian assistance can continue to flow into Gaza. UNWRA, for its part, has pledged a full investigation into this m and has vowed to hold any of tho responsible accountable for this But today, we're also getting reaction from which is condemning Israel's threats against that UN Israel has said that they would like to end UNRWA's role in Gaza altogether and is calling on countries to end funding to that agency Fred. All right, Jeremy Diamond, thank you so much for your repor All right. In Gaza, the Palestine Red Crescent Society is appealing for protect for the Al Amal Hospital in Hon. Yunis in Gaza. The aid agency says Israeli bombing in the area has endangered its medical staff and the 7000 people who are taking shelter there. Separately, at least nine people were killed and another 75 injured this week when Israeli tank fire hit the U shelter that was harboring hundreds of people. That's according to the UN. Streams of Palestinians fled the area in southern Gaza following the attack. The Israeli military said it is looking into the incident and said it wasn't the result of by Israeli forces. I want to bring in Jayda McKenna She is the CEO of Mercy Corps. So good to see you. So there's an aid organization that has been working in Gaza and the West Bank for more than  What what have your aid workers been telling you about the attac shelter and the aftermath? You know, increasingly, Palestinians have been moved into smaller and smaller spaces. And for this to happen, it's just another example where there are very few places  physically to be. And to see them continually getting bombed. It just escalates this feeling that nowhere is safe and the anxiety of the hardship of living amidst the worst situation. After the attack, you reiterated that Gazans are t They have nowhere to go. And the same applies to some of your aid workers. What are they doing to try to st And how are you able to communicate with people? So we sent some of them have, you know, different SIM cards from other countries to get around telecoms plans, because the Isra I mean, Israel has shut down telecommunications for four week or days at a time at times. You know, they talk about spending a lot o each day looking for food. They talk about spreading over safe shelter. They try to get word about their relatives and others And they are also just complaini They're also starting to get sic I have one staff member who said everyone in her family has either a skin infection or some other kind of infection. So this prolonged period of harsh winter weather with no safe shelter, not enough not enough food, it's taking its toll on people in many different dimensions. You are among many who have called for an immediate cease fire, something you've been demanding for some time now. Do you feel like your plea and that of many is even being h Or do you believe that at some p there will be a cease fire if it doesn't haven't happened more immediately? It's very disheartening. And, you know, at this point, all all 2 million people of Gaza are in need of humanitarian aid to launch a response and to serve that many people. That is something outside of the purview of aid organizati There is no way for us to do tha in the absence of a total cease  People don't know where to go fo Our staff will be at risk and it will be chaotic. So it's really disheartening that our pleas for this have been unheard because the longer this goes on, the more that is an absolute precondition for any And you say one of the things that hampers your organization is a lack of a and a lack of access points, you know, for for Gaza aid. Can you kind of paint a picture for people who still have a hard envisioning, you know, what these obstacles a and in what ways can aid be rendered rendered? So just to start with, getting supplies in on a normal Gaza was always dependent on those crossings for all of their commercial good and everything else. On a normal day, 500 trucks, including like regular grocery store restocking, would go through the to go into Gaza every day. At this point, we're averaging about 130 trucks a day, just of  not of any commercial things. There are hundreds of trucks lined up at the Egyptian border. Some items have been indiscriminately banned from those trucks. So sleeping bags were rejected for having metal zippers. Tents were respected for were rejected for having met So a truck gets the inspection s something gets disqualified, and then they have to go all the way to the back of the line on top o where are we as aid workers to tell people to go to collect aid? Earlier in this segment, we talked about a U.N. shelter getting bombed. You have a hospital getting bomb Where do we feel comfortable telling people that they can go and be safe to get these supplie So people are so desperate, they're even mobbing the trucks that are coming in. But we just have no visibility to how we safely transport because areas that should have been deconflict continue to be bombed. And then what about medical care? So this is you know, at this poi the U.N. is warning that a warning that a famine could be coming. But at this point, your people are so depleted of food and resources and no medical care that they're you're starting to see people dying of secondary things like diarrheal diseases, infecti and and with the lack of medical or medical supplies. They are hopeless. Very people are going to die from very simple infections that could have been handled with antibiotics. Terrible. All right, Jim McKenna, thank you so much. And I know you and so many non-government agencies are working so hard to try to re whatever care and assistance you can, and it is an uphill battle. Thank you so much for your time.
</doc>