<video_id>XMrnz6G1j1M</video_id>
<video_title>Conditions at Gaza hospital deteriorate amid Israel’s military operation</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Conditions at Gaza hospital deteriorate amid Israel’s military operation.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231117</publish_date>

<doc>
Israel attempts to justify its raid of the al-Shifa hospital. Conditions inside the complex are growing more dire by the day. CNN's Dana Bash here has an update on the humanitarian crisis unfolding all across Gaza. Right. It's a scene should be filled with innocents. But these drawings, sketches of houses paint a picture of all these children have lost hope for the displaced. Now, makeshift shelters in central Gaza live in limbo with nowhere to go in the south as more children are buried. Another warning, leaflets dropped by the Israeli military on Thursday, telling civilians in southern Gaza to move and find shelter. A foreboding signal that Israel's ground incursion could soon extend its punishing reach. Now they are asking us to leave. Where do we go? And we want to understand where exactly we should go. It should Denia, the U.N. rights expert on Thursday warned that grave violations committed by Israel point, in their words, to a genocide in the making. As darkness encompasses doctors in the South already grappling with the impact of Israel's intensifying bombing campaign. There are growing fears over what could come next. Desperate scenes from the north of Gaza, almost entirely destroyed by Israel's unrelenting airstrikes, show just how dire the situation can quickly become in the. We have lost contact with our colleagues, patients and everyone inside the al-Shifa medical complex. What stopped it? Israeli forces say they are still active in and around the al-Shifa hospital. Gaza's largest, claiming to have found an operational tunnel saw at the hospital complex with no access to the complex. CNN is unable to verify either side's claims. Israel says its military operation at al-Shifa will take time, raising fears over the safety and security of more than a thousand patients and medical staff now trapped inside. We are looking at options for full medical evacuation, but there are a lot of security concerns. There are a lot of logistics constraints. Our options are rather limited. There were allegations of people at al-Shifa being interrogated and even stripped are beginning to emerge. While doctors are detailing the harrowing decisions they are being forced to make, including amputating limbs to stop the spread of infection, who, with the communications blackout, cutting northern Gaza off for much of the outside world. CNN has no ability to verify these accounts and has reached out to the IDF for comment. No videos have emerged from Stone Shifa Hospital since the raid began in the early hours of Wednesday morning. These are some of the last pictures to have been shared with the world. Premature babies in intensive care. There is no way to tell if all are still alive. Their cries, some of the last heard heard the voices of those inside. And Shifa the silence when it came. Look, Wolf, there is still mounting concern for the safety and security of those patients and medical staff, as well as other civilians inside the al-Shifa complex. As you heard there, it is extremely difficult to even begin to think about evacuating some of these patients who require specialist medical evacuations. And as we know, of course, already there are some 1.5 million Palestinians who have been displaced within the Gaza Strip. And, of course, while that has been an intense focus on the al-Shifa complex, what we are seeing across the Gaza Strip is continued aerial bombardment, continued concern over the mounting death toll that we are seeing, Wolf, not of Bashir reporting live from Jerusalem. Thank you a very much. Let's get some more on all of these developments. Joining us now, a spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces, Lieutenant Colonel Amnon Scheffler Scheffler. Lieutenant Colonel, thank you so much for joining us, first of all. What more can you tell us about this, quote, operational tunnel shaft that Israeli forces say they found inside al-Shifa complex? Is that the extent of what the IDF has found at al-Shifa so far when it comes to tunnels, or is there more? This is one of the piers that we found in the area that we are continuously also looking for other. And this shows that clearly there is a tunnel infrastructure underneath the al-Shifa hospital. We found also today a lot of explosives and other ammunitions right in that courtyard of the al-Shifa hospital. Also together with what we found yesterday in the MRI room. We also found the car that you just showed that is similar to the cars that were used on the October 7th massacre. And it was booby trapped once again showing how Hamas did not care and was looking forward to explode a car inside the Shifa hospital that would surely have killed also patients and staff of that hospital. can you say unequivocally that what's been found at the hospital shows this was a major Hamas command center? What exactly do you defined as a command center? Yes, we can say that now, clearly. And now we're also showing it on top of the evidence that we knew from the intel and that they are U.S. counterparts have also verified. What we're seeing here is a place where Hamas can gather. We saw the communication tools that they had. We saw the intel tools that they need in order to facilitate any kind of terrorist activity and carry it out from that infrastructure that they used. Again, another civilian infrastructure. Similarly, like they used schools, like they used mosques, and also like they used this hospital, Al-Quds hospital, the Rantisi Hospital, to carry out and plan and execute terrorist activity. The director of al-Shifa hospital there says patients there are going untreated, including a lot of children. Doesn't Israel have an obligation to deliver critical supplies to to at least the patients there? We have an obligation, a moral obligation, and we wish to. That is why today we brought 4000 liters of water to the hospital. That is why we brought today 1500 prepared meals to the hospital. That is why we are continuously talking to the administration of the hospital and the doctors and to see what is needed. And based on what they said, we brought in the incubators. We brought in baby food. We have designated an area of the hospital, the eastern side of it, that civilians and patients that can leave should leave through the humanitarian corridors that we are continuously protecting and allowing those civilians to leave. And that is why we are in continuous communication to find the best way that we can alleviate the suffering that Hamas is bringing on the people in Gaza. Are you planning to deliver fuel to the hospital? We have offered fuel, 300 liters that our soldiers brought while taking a risk to the hospital. Sadly, the hospital did not take it in, probably because the Hamas was threatening what would happen to them if they do. And as I mentioned, we are in continuous communication and whatever the hospital says that they need, we will try to facilitate that. The body of an Israeli hostage, a woman, was found near al-Shifa hospital. The IDF says she was killed by terrorists. Can you explain the exact circumstances of her death? 65 year old grandmother, 65 year old died. Vice was found right next to the al-Shifa hospital and brought back to his to Israel to be buried next to her husband that was also murdered on the 7th of October by Hamas. We have two goals in this war that Hamas launched. One is to dismantle Hamas. And the second is to bring back the hostages. Now, on the day 41 are still being held by Hamas. And I want to remind everyone, the safest and fastest way for these hostages to come home is for Hamas to release them and the international community to continue pressuring Hamas to do so. So do you know exactly how this 65 year old grandmother died? We know that she, on October 7th, was alive in her bed in Kibbutz Berri, and Hamas came in and brutally massacred 10% of that kibbutz and took her as hostage together with a nine month old baby, children, women and elderly. And now we know that she has sadly passed away. As you know, Israel has dropped leaflets in the largest city in southern Gaza warning civilians there to leave. The IDF previously told people to move south for safety. So where are they supposed to go? where are the ones that are actually continuously communicating with the people of Gaza, looking for the safer areas where they can be? Because we knew that Hamas has its headquarters, mainly in the Gaza City. That is where operationally we chose to start. But sadly, as we know, Hamas is operating all over the Gaza Strip. More than 10,000 rockets have been fired from the Gaza Strip towards Israeli civilians. And this includes coming from the southern part of Gaza. So Hamas is not operating only in Gaza City. It's operating also in the south. And in order to reach our number one goal, which is to dismantle Hamas, we will go them wherever they are. Yet we are looking for the safest places for the civilians of Gaza. And that is why we've asked them initially to move to the southern part of Gaza, south of the border of Gaza. And now we're telling them specifically where to move within that area. And also, while doing so, we're continuously in communication with any international organization that wants to aid the Gazans, bring in any international medicine facilities, food that can be help, including field hospitals that we're inviting any country that wants to donate them, to bring them to the southern part of Gaza so we can help the Palestinians, as we said, reaching the goal of dismantling Hamas will not only bring it to be safer for Israelis, it will also bring it to be safer for the Palestinians living in Gaza. Lieutenant Colonel Amnon Scheffler, thanks so much for joining us. Thanks for having us.
</doc>