<video_id>SeDri9zeCgc</video_id>
<video_title>Deadly strike in Golan Heights raises fears of major escalation</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Deadly strike in Golan Heights raises fears of major escalation.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240728</publish_date>

<doc>
We have breaking news tonight out of the Middle East where Israeli officials are vowing to respond after a deadly strike in the Golan Heights. When when they responded saying at least 11 people were killed, including children when rockets fired from Lebanon hit a football field. We spoke with former Israeli Prime minister Naftali Bennett last hour. He said both Hezbollah and Lebanon have effectively declared war on Israel and Israel must now respond accordingly. The state of Lebanon essentially shot a rocket made in Iran. We know the name of the guy who shot it. His name is Ali Mahmoud Yesha. These rockets were made in Iran. Iranian rockets, 50 kilograms of warhead. And it's time that we hit back. Jeremy Diamond is on the ground for us where this strike hit. Jeremy, we see it behind you there. What are you hearing about all of this? You know, Jessica, we arrived on the scene and the mood is very, very heavy here. The Israeli military now says that 12 people were killed and these are all children and young adults between the ages of ten and 20. Several dozen more were injured, some of them in very serious condition at local hospitals. But this is the deadliest incident since October 7th on civilians since the beginning of this conflict, according to the Israeli military. And there are now very real concerns that this could trigger a broader escalation in this conflict. But before we get to that, I do want to bring in Timor here, who actually lives right across from this soccer field where this strike actually happened. Timor. You were nearby. You. You heard the sirens and you actually saw this rocket hit right here? Yeah, I did. I live about 50 meters across from the playground on the first floor, so I have a direct view of what happened here. I was just sitting on my desk. I got my notification and like, 2 seconds later, maybe less. I heard the sirens. I just rushed to the window. Not even 45 seconds. I opened the window. I was just looking straight. I saw it hit. I thought I saw the kids panicking, running around. And that happened around 6:18 p.m., something like that. And I just ran straight here. I got here, like, 10 minutes later. And that's when I arrived to the scene. And I had, like, a clear vision of the impact and of the crater zone. So that's what I saw. And so you heard the warning sirens telling you that rockets were coming in. But but it was just seconds. No, there's not enough time. That's impossible. If someone tells you otherwise that it's impossible, even. Possible to get to. What, 4 to 5 seconds? What can you do in 45 seconds? You can do nothing. It's like you said, if I'm saying 5 seconds, maybe I'm just. It's too long. I think it's 4 seconds, maybe less. Like the sirens were still going on. That's when we heard. I heard them back then. I saw it and I saw the kids like you know, you're talking about kids and children also. They have a reaction time. They're panicking. They're going to stress they need much more time than that. Even if you have 5 seconds and you're completely aware of the situation, you wouldn't have enough time to react to this. And so so once you saw that rocket actually hit, you came here, you came to the scene. I did. And what what what did you see? Well, at first I saw the injured and your children running around. I saw blood. They didn't respond to us. They were panicking. I saw a lot of guys gathering here. Most of them didn't go down. I went down here and I saw a lot of things that are way too gruesome to mention out of respect for the families. And we tried to help, but it was beyond our help. There is nothing we can do. There were injuries that you saw that were too gruesome, too critical for any medical attention. So there's nothing you can do? No, I'm not. I will not go into details, but there's nothing you can do. And this this area around 6 p.m., you know, it's summer. Yeah, it must be. It's summer. Kids are playing. And we kind of got used to the situation because it's been going on for a while. We hear the sirens all the time and we just. We just got used to it. Nothing like this ever happened before. And tell me about this. This community. I mean, when we came out here, everyone is around. Everyone is still up. It's very late at night. It's two in the morning, but everyone is still up. Everybody must feel very impacted. It's a very close knit community, of course. I mean, if you look around, everybody is helping, trying to prepare for the ceremony for the funerals tomorrow. And because everybody knows everybody and everybody is related to someone and we know the kids, we know the children, all the families is well connected. And so we stand together in good or in bad. And this is what's happening right now. It's a dark day for our town. It's a tragedy that hit us all. And this day will be remembered for generations to come. And and it will go down in history as this is a must and not just in our town, in the whole of the country. As you said, it's the deadliest attack since the 7th of October. And it's happened in the in our small village. So what is what is the feeling around here? Obviously, there's sadness. Is there anger as well with that? And and where is that anger being directed? I don't know what the answer is. this anger is directed at the war in general, because, you know, in war there is no one is winning. We're all losing. And the longer it goes on, the more we're going to lose and we're helpless. There is nothing not much that we can do, but I think that should be a response for what's happened here today. And we will not go quiet until we get a response for what's happened here, because these are our children. These are our children, you know, and what's happened here is unforgettable. Like, just look at it. They're just kids playing soccer, playing football here. And they didn't even look at the shelter. It's only like a few meters away, but I'm quite sure they didn't have enough time to get there, even if they were there. Acted like instantly there was not enough time. Yeah. Thank you so much. Teamwork, Jessica. I do. I do want to bring you closer to the scene here because this is where you can see this crater. Right here is where that rocket actually struck. The Israeli military says that this was an Iranian made rocket that they say is only in Hezbollah's arsenal. Hezbollah has denied responsibility for this attack, but the Israeli military says that they are clear that this was Hezbollah that carried out this attack. They say that the rocket was fired from a village in southern Lebanon. And you can they say that this was an Iranian war, miss a rocket. Forgive me, that had a 50 kilo warhead attached to it. You can also see behind here there are bicycles. This scene is is effectively frozen in time from the moment when this strike happens. And just to bring you over to the side, I have my cameraman offset pan around. You can see how close this is. That cinderblock building right there is a safe space. That is where you rush to when you hear those sirens. And so just so devastating to see how close these children were to that shelter. But obviously, with just a few seconds to be able to try and rush into there once they heard those sirens was simply simply not enough. And the results now 12 people, according to the Israeli military who are dead between the ages of ten and 20 and an entire community here that is absolutely devastated. Just it is truly, truly devastating news, Jeremy, And clearly just so heartbreaking for that whole community and these children who are just playing soccer to be targeted in that way. We know that Prime Minister Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was still in the U.S. when this happened. He cut his trip short. He's now headed back. We're told he'll be convening with his war cabinet upon his arrival. What are you hearing about how the government might be responding to this? Well, there was a very swift response from a number of government officials, all of them making very clear that there will be a response for this attack, a very serious response, and that the Israeli prime minister himself said, I can say that the state of Israel will not be silence about this. We will not put this off the agenda. Benny Gantz, a former member of the war cabinet, a member of the opposition. Now, he came to Majdal Shams this evening to meet with community leaders, and he was also making very clear that not only will there be a response, but that the Israeli government will have his support as a member of the opposition for a decisive response in Lebanon, and that really is now the big question. There have been fears not only in Israel but also in the U.S. government that an incident like this one with so many casualties, notably civilian casualties, and in this case, many of them being children, that an incident like this could potentially set off a very dangerous escalation, potentially lead to war. And that is certainly the question now, is whether or not the escalation, the response from Israel will be so severe that it could lead to that all out conflict with Hezbollah, that all out war with Hezbollah that so many have feared. At this hour, it is too premature to say whether or not that will happen. What is clear is that we've been hearing the sounds of jets buzzing above us. We are very close to the Lebanese border here. It is clear that the Israeli military will respond to this attack, which they say was carried out by Hezbollah. How severe that response will be will determine the course of things, will determine what the counter reaction from Hezbollah will be and will determine whether or not we are headed for a very, very dangerous and deadly path Jessica. Jeremy Diamond, live from Golan Heights, the new reporting there. Thank you so much for that.
</doc>