<video_id>UWl2BivEwnM</video_id>
<video_title>Dramatic video shows rockets fired into Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Dramatic video shows rockets fired into Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231102</publish_date>

<doc>
how does this activity that we're now seeing from your Cara, not far from gaza, how does this activity for us -- compared to what we have seen over the past few nights. &gt;&gt; Wolf, the past few nights it's not been as intense as this, we have not seen this level of illumination, we've occasionally seen flares with -- heavy debt to nations but as I look, there another missile, not sure what kind of missile it, was literally right from the start -- these -- seem to be slightly smaller missiles, but the area here that's being illuminated by the flares is much bigger than we've seen recently. You just saw a flash come out there, I just saw on other missile come down and impact on the ground. Possibly the way that the trajectory of that missile is possibly, coming from a helicopter, it's just not possible for us to say precisely at the moment. There is a clear focus of fire, here this firepower and the illumination being fought on the edge of what we estimate to be gaza city, I just saw a rocket fly to the right out of gaza, we watched the right towards -- to see if there's any interceptions from I am bone, but there's a red tracer fearless really flying from gaza to the right. This is normally from our experience here been Iraq it's coming out of gaza. I don't see any interceptions, I'm hearing interceptions, I'm seeing the flashes from interception to missiles being fired out. While this is going on, here it is clear to me from where I stand right now that hamas, or one of the other groups is firing rockets out of gaza even while they run this heavy fire right now, I heard at least two detonations from the iron dome interceptor missile shield from systems that are slightly to the north of us here, intercepting those rockets flying out of the city. What this tells us right now is the battle is having an intense moment, the troops are trying to engage with hamas, as they try to have illumination,, they try to use this light to get their way more safely into combat with hamas. Hamas of course, hamas is fighting on its own territory, it has set, trumps it knows words tunnels are, it knows how it can try to leak idf troops entice them into a certain neighborhood so that they can bring fire to bear on them. All of this illumination here will give the idf troops on the ground, better visibility of the threats that are white. Them it won't mitigate against him, Taliban it is an attempt for them it appears to be able to at this moment penetrate some neighborhoods that until 15 minutes ago were in complete darkness. You're just seeing another flash of light on the ground there as something has detonated. I'm watching another rocket system in multiple parts of second one coming down there into the city. It is this fire that is very concentrated, another rocket just came down, I'm seeing the arc of the tracers after it. This is a very intense amount of firepower that's going down on this confined location here wolf. Surprising, almost surprising that hamas was able to fire out Iraq at there. I'm seeing flashes off to the north which is a hit to me, interceptors have been fired from iron don't up there again, possibly another intercepting anr rocket. You're seeing the flares -- were watching flares that are dropped over gaza, you will see one flare drop to flares, maybe create -- and it will go to darkness. This is different. This is flare after flare after flare, illuminating this area now for, we're looking at perhaps 15 minutes now wolf. &gt;&gt; Just to remind our viewers of what we're seeing, this is our camera instead wrote, just outside of gaza. We're seeing these live cameras, a massive Israeli airstrike campaign underway right now towards various targets in northern gaza, as we can see right there. You see all the smoke, you see the rockets coming down. This is a major new development. We also saw some rockets coming in from gaza towards Israel that appear to have been intercepted by Israel's iron dome. System. But, we are seeing this very intense system, Nick, standby for a minute. You are not too far away from all this drama that is unfolding, it seems like a major new chapter in Israel's air campaign against hamas targets in gaza. Ben wedeman, you know gaza well. You've been there. I've been there as well. But tell us a little, I know you are in Beirut right now, when you see these live pictures coming in of this massive Israeli air strike assault on northern gaza right now, what do you think? &gt;&gt; Well, what I'm thinking is from looking at the pictures, Nick is in sderot, which overlooks a fairly open area that goes to the edge of the populated parts of northern gaza. That seems to be where much of this fire, the flares, are being focused. Obviously they are trying to make sure that those areas are clear. But after those areas, you start getting into the very crowded urban parts of the gaza strip. The suburbs of gaza city. That's WHE there is going to be a real danger of high civilian casualties. Nick was quoting the Israeli authorities, talking about precision strikes, precise information. But what we know is that oftentimes, it's not as precise as it could be or should be. And already, what we've seen is the death toll in gaza well over 9000 at this point. So, as they move forward into this populated area, the death toll is likely to soar. Not just that, what we've seen is in the days since the ground incursion began on Friday, is that hamas is using maximum advantage its knowledge of the terrain. It's tunnels that it has been built, and booby traps, and whatnot. And therefore, this is going to be a very bloody fight all around. For civilians, for the Israeli military, for hamas and this is probably going to be a very long and difficult battle. Street by street, house by house, perhaps even room by room. But clearly, just looking at these pictures, they are laying down smoke, flares, there's incoming -- looks like artillery. I'm just looking at the pictures now. Artillery, rockets, and obviously there are ground troops in there as well. Certainly, in all of my time of watching Israeli military action going into gaza, this looks like the most intense I've ever seen, wolf. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you're making a very important point, this is a very in tense air assault on northern gaza right now not far away from sderot, Israel, where nic Robertson is just north of Israel right now. You see these rockets coming in, pounding and pouncing when Israel has undertaken a massive air assault like this it sets the stage for a ground invasion, that is about to come in, I suspect that's what's going to happen in this part of gaza as well as Israeli ground to rips, tax, artillery will move in after this area is pounded with these heavy airstrikes that are ongoing right now. We are showing our viewers live pictures of what's going on in [Sound of artillery] It is really, really intense. Let's go back to Nick Robertson. You are therein sderot, nic, you have a much better sense of what's going on. You say you've not seen anything along these lines. Here comes some more rockets into gaza from, presumably, Israeli planes flying overhead. Go ahead and give us your sense of the enormity of this development right now. &gt;&gt; Wolf, I'm standing right next to our camera man, John -- who is filming this. We have a high vantage point overlooking gaza. It looks to us as if this is on the northern edge, towards gaza city. As Ben said, there is open ground from the border fence that you saw, or you're about to see. I'm seeing it in realtime. There's a delay. A big flash coming out from the epicenter of that smoke. This is the biggest, most sustained use of flares. It appears, smoke as well on We have seen, in recent days, at the beginning of the incursion, how the idf used heavy smoke to blanket the area. This is a military tactic so that they can move in unseen. We are seeing it again now. We are seeing big flashes at the southern end of that smoke. And what the idf is describing, this evening, is a very new situation for them. A much stronger situation for them. Whereby they say they have encircled entirely gaza city. If they have encircled gaza city, as they say, potentially cut the north off, the north of gaza strip off from the south of gaza strip. Potentially, meaning the Israelis now are blocking any hamas in the north of the gaza strip from escaping to the south. You are now watching a battle, in some, ways one of the team here was just talking about it. In some ways, it is sort of medieval in that it is surrounding a city. You are seeing the smoke, and the flares, and the flash is all coming from an area that is now constrained and contained within idf forces. As Ben was saying, the civilian casualties on the ground, people have been told to get out of the way, they don't know how to get out of the way. They are stuck in their houses, they are stuck in their homes. They are getting caught up and killed, in high numbers. During this operation. But what we are witnessing now, our efforts by the idf to mitigate against casualties for their own forces. Because they are operating in hamas territory. Territory that the hamas troops, hamas fighters, have been able to potentially lay booby traps, have been able to set areas where they want to draw the Israeli troops into, so that they can use these armored piercing rocket propelled grenades that they've been using. Effectively, against Israeli armored tanks, and armored fighting vehicles. So, this is -- this battle, really, that we are seeing now, kicked off 20 minutes ago now. 20, 25 minutes ago. And it is intense in this area around gaza city. You continue to see the rockets come in from above, the flashes at the southern end of the Underneath this, we don't know how many idf forces are actually on the ground. The boom that you are hearing, that's artillery going off behind me as well. It's probably what is causing the flashes that you may be seeing on the left of your picture. I saw another flash, there at the northern end of gaza strip, just now, that looks like something coming up out of A rocket that didn't go far, perhaps it fell short. But anything that comes up from the ground is most likely, from a center, that's mostly fired up by hamas or another group inside of gaza. Anything that is coming out of the sky like this, rocket right
</doc>