<video_id>71K-V7Du_FE</video_id>
<video_title>Exclusive: CNN meets Israeli troops as tensions rise on Lebanon border</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Exclusive CNN meets Israeli troops as tensions rise on Lebanon border.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231016</publish_date>

<doc>
Over the last 24 hours or so, there has been intensifying exchanges of fire between Israel and Hezbollah militants that operate inside Lebanon. Hezbollah is a terrorist organization that gets support from Iran, but operates as a quasi governmental force, really inside the borders of Lebanon. They've been going back and forth with Israel over the last seven days. United Nations peacekeepers who operate inside southern Lebanon say that their headquarters were hit by a wayward rocket. Luckily, no one was hurt there. But it gives you a sense of the situation along that border with Israel now saying that people who live within two kilometers of that border should evacuate. 28 villages concern. Our Matthew Chance is in northern Israel, not far from that border right now. Matthew, give us the situation a very tense situation up here, close to the Lebanese border here. Right within the past few hours, the Israeli military has ordered 28 Israeli communities to evacuate from their positions very close to that frontier with Lebanon. And so that's in process now. And that follows a string of cross-border attacks that have been taking place over the course of the past 24 hours, or in fact, even longer than that. But nine rocket attacks according to the Israeli Defense Forces over the course of the past 24 hours. They've responded to that with air strikes and artillery strikes, some of which we can hear are being launched from very close to this location here, close to the Lebanese border. We were also able, though, to gain some access to that exclusion zone close to the border. It's actually four kilometers, about two and a half miles back from the border that they've now said is off limits to Israeli civilians. They gave us access and showed us where the basically that the front lines were. It's also the place, remember, which could really turn this conflict inside Israel into a much broader regional war. And so it's a very dangerous sort of tipping point here in northern Israel. Still, all the civilians that we talk we talked to most of them, at least the soldiers, the politicians that I've been in contact with as well. They are so enraged, so angry at what happened in Gaza last weekend that they say they are ready, even bristling for a fight with Hezbollah. Take a listen to what one Israeli commander told me right Are you hopeful still that Hezbollah will stay out of this war? I hope there will be another front. We need to destroy Hezbollah. You hope there will be another front. You want the war? Yes. Why? What Hamas did in Gaza, it didn't come from nowhere. It came from Hezbollah. It came from Iran. And in order for us to stop what happened from Hamas, we need to stop them also. Yeah, John. And the big difference now, of course, is that for some reason, the Israeli military were not ready during the Gaza attacks. They are very ready up here in the north of the country. Matthew was really extraordinary to see him pointing right there. It gives you a sense of how close they are. He was merely just pointing a little bit north to where Hezbollah operates with these extremely powerful and well-trained militias. Matthew Chance in northern Israel, please stay safe. U.S. Secretary of State Tony Blinken is back in Israel Today, he's been in the region traveling all throughout the region. For days now. We're standing by to see if Blinken will speak to reporters this hour. A critical update potentially coming from him, given the news that you just reported, John. The IDF offered this also a sobering update on the hostages taken by Hamas terrorists. They now believe 199 people are being held hostage by Hamas in Gaza. They've also said over the weekend that some may have been killed in transit, if you will, during the trip from Israel into Gaza. Sara Sidner is right now in Haifa, Israel, where U.S. evacuations are underway. Hey, Sara. Hey, Kate and John. It's good to see you guys there. Safe and sound. We are safe and sound at the moment. Here in Haifa, Israel, where we have just watched in the last 2 hours. A huge ship taking away Americans out of the danger zone and to Cyprus. We'll get to that in just a minute. But first, I want to go to our Jeremy Diamond, who has been tracking the whereabouts and and the conversations that Anthony Blinken has been having the secretary of state here for the second time in just a week as Israel prepares for a potential ground war with Gaza. And as this war rages on. What can you tell us, Jeremy, about the plans here? What Secretary Blinken is doing back here again, why it was so important for him to show up in this country a second time in such a short amount of time Well, Sarah, just to give you a sense of how fluid the situation on the ground is right now, the secretary, even the reporter is traveling with the secretary of state, really haven't had a clear sense of exactly who he's been meeting with and when, although we did just get a readout from the secretary of state spokesman that he did indeed meet with the Israeli prime minister as well as the presidents of Israel, Isaac Herzog. And in these readouts, we don't have a ton of details, but it's clear what the focus of these discussions is It is the release of those hostages being held in Gaza. And it is, of course, the situation regarding humanitarian aid being able to flow into Gaza and having Americans who are trapped in Gaza be able to exit southward and into Egypt. several days, there has been a lot of finger pointing, a lot of conflicting information concerning when or whether that Rafah crossing between Gaza and Egypt might indeed open. The Egyptian officials have blamed the Israelis at time. At times. And there's been a lot of conflicting information. US embassy officials telling Americans inside of Gaza to head for that crossing, expecting it to open. But as of yet, we have not seen any evidence that that crossing has indeed open. So the question is whether at the end of this day, as the secretary of state concludes a series of meetings with Israeli officials, whether we will be in a place where humanitarian aid will start flowing into Gaza, and whether those Americans and perhaps other civilians will be able to exit Gaza and into Egypt. Amid all of this, we also have the Israeli prime minister inviting President Joe Biden to come visit Israel The president so far not confirming whether or not he intends to visit Israel. But we do know that today he was scheduled to take a trip to Colorado. He canceled that trip at the last minute staying at the White House instead for what they are describing as national security meetings, whether that is a prelude to a presidential visit here to Israel. We do not yet know. But of course, the situation on the ground remains extremely fluid. We just had sirens nearby here in Jerusalem, rockets being fired in central Israel. And all of this, again, amid preparations by Israel for a potential ground invasion. Sara, Jared Diamond, you have been so great on this story. Thank you so much for breaking that down for us. Another important meeting between the U.S. secretary of state and many of the leadership here in Israel. I do want to mention why I'm here and why I'm where I am in Haifa. We are about 85 miles from the Lebanon border where there have been rockets that have come over, but far, far, far fewer than what has come out of Gaza, shot by Hamas here, rockets coming over the border because of Hezbollah, a sworn enemy of Israel's. But for the most part, it has been quiet here in the north. But what has also happened is that the United States has been getting so many inquiries from Americans who can't simply get out of Israel during wartime, many of them with children who are concerned about their safety, both mentally and physically. Finally, the United States was able to charter an enormous ship that left from this port a couple of hours ago. And on it were American families who had been stuck here for days as the war raged on, unable to leave because there aren't enough flights those flights are very sparse and almost all of them are completely packed, leaving Israel. So this was one way to try to get hundreds of Americans out of Israel. They just took this. They are currently in the water on a ten hour travel time to Cyprus, which is where they will get off and be able to book their flights back to the United States. We spoke to several families about why they came. Many of them live here in Israel. They are American citizens who have chosen to live here in Israel. Some of them have been helping troops on the border with Lebanon, taking them supplies, trying to do their part for the war effort. But but many just said, look, it is time for us to get our kids to safety and to calm the nerves of our family members who have been watching all this from the United States. Take a listen. citizens and the U.S. embassy made it pretty easy to have a way. And if for some reason the borders are closed, we'll swim back Becky. All right. So you heard that. She also said, look, we are coming back and all of them said the same thing. We will be back in Israel. We consider this our home as well. No matter how long it takes, we will be back here to this country, a country that they love as much as the United States.
</doc>