<video_id>ErMsMa37UPk</video_id>
<video_title>Explosion heard in Hezbollah stronghold in Beirut</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Explosion heard in Hezbollah stronghold in Beirut.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240730</publish_date>

<doc>
We're following more breaking news in to CNN. This out of the Middle East. According to a Hezbollah run TV agency, a loud explosion has been heard in the southern suburbs of Beirut. Let's take you there live with CNN's Ben Wedeman. Ben, what more are you learning about this explosion? Of course, we know that within the last a half hour, there was a large explosion in what's known as the Heart break neighborhood of southern Beirut. That's an area where many of the leaders of Hezbollah have been known to operate. Now, we don't have a lot of details. We know that some local channels are saying that the one of the building hit was a residential building. We don't know about casualties at this point. It still seems to be a fairly chaotic scene. We have seen pictures of smoke rising from that part of the city, but certainly that is what we know at this point. It is the first time the southern suburbs of Beirut have been hit since early January, when the Israelis had killed a senior Hamas leader who was in that area. But as I said, this is the first strike since then. And Hezbollah has made it very clear all along that if Beirut is struck, they will answer accordingly. They have said that they will meet escalation with escalation in the aftermath of last Saturday's attack on the Golan in the Israeli occupied Syrian Golan Heights, that left 12 children dead. So perhaps this is the first major Israeli response to that attack. Doris and Ben, just to be clear, when this you're saying this happened in the Beirut suburbs. Can you give us some specificity on what Hezbollah might see as, an attack, maybe Beirut proper versus in the suburbs? Will this matter? Well, we call it it's called the Beirut suburb. It's the El Dia in Arabic, but it really is part of the city of Beirut. It's between where I am, down by the port, and the and the airport. So it really is Beirut proper, despite what we call it. And of course, that has been made clear time and time again, by Hezbollah there. That's a red line. Now, just the other day, I spoke with the foreign minister of Lebanon, who told me that through diplomatic channels they had received assurances from, their friends. He called them, that Beirut, that the Israeli response would be limited. And the Lebanese government interpreted that as meaning, the southern suburbs of Beirut, and the airport would not be targeted. That perhaps was not a very correct interpretation of those so-called assurances. Brianna. Ben, please stand by for us in Beirut. We want to bring in CNN military analyst, former general Mark curling, who is joining us now live. general, thank you so much for being with us. Walk us through the significance of these explosions happening in Beirut, and specifically, what would give you evidence or what would, suggest to you that this was, in fact, an IDF led attack? We have nothing that leads to that just yet, but it's the possibility of an IDF attack. Usually it's not done this early, even in the evening after sunset. The IDF usually waits until the later, hours of the of the evening, where they can assure that there's no, collateral damage on civilian casualties when they conduct a strike. But when you're talking about explosions, you don't really know where they come from. And again, I would suggest, because this is, Lebanon, this is Beirut, that there is the potential for other types of explosion in this area. So you can't conclude anything just yet. I do, general, I do want to stop you there because Israel is now Israel is now claiming responsibility for this strike in southern Beirut. So obviously that's, important information and changes. your calculus of how you're seeing this explain the significance. Now that we know that we just literally got that in the Israeli military, saying that it carried out a targeted strike in southern Beirut. Well, Brianna, thanks for being the scout on the screen line right there. As soon as you've confirmed it, then you can talk about it a whole lot differently. The thing that I was about to say, Ben's reporting about, you know, promises of not striking or having limited strikes doesn't necessarily mean they're not going to strike in Beirut. There are areas there. we're in and around the capital where Hezbollah has centers. Let's just call on that. Anything from cells to intelligence centers to military command structures in and around the area of Beirut, they've always had that. So when you're talking about the potential to limit that and not go near the capital area or near the airport, I just find that a little bit, and not, it's a little bit of hyperbole from the standpoint of someone hoping for the best that this wouldn't happen. So if it is, and I'll say one more thing, if it's just us, a couple of explosions has been has been reported. Two explosions. That is a proportional response so far. it could get bigger. But when you're talking about what happened the other day with the killing of civilians and especially children in that, in that, playground or that soccer field, you're talking about the potential for a much greater response by Israel. And again, this could just be step one. But this is a proportional response, not only against Hezbollah, but against, it's a signal to the Lebanese government of get control of these terrorist that are living among you. And I want to read and paraphrase a portion of the statement that we just got from the IDF taking responsibility. It says, quote, the IDF carried out a targeted strike in Beirut on the commander responsible for the murder of the children in the Golan Heights and the killing of numerous additional Israeli civilians. General, I think the concern has been going back to October 7th, of a wider regional conflict. the United States has repeatedly warned Israel about any potential attacks going into Beirut specifically. But we heard, John Kirby, the spokesperson for the NSC, recently say that, concerns about a wider conflict based on an Israeli response are exaggerated. How do you see where the conflict stands now versus what this could potentially lead up to? Hey. Well, there were a couple of actions, Boris, and you're exactly right. John Kirby did say all those things. And I think it was as a warning to all that, an Israeli attack into southern Lebanon, a ground attack, as it were, or, an extensive air campaign in Lebanon would be significant, and it would not be to Israel's advantage because it would open up a second front while they're continuing with their actions in Gaza. But, truthfully, Israel has to respond to that kind of attack from Lebanon. So, again, a proportional response versus a ground incursion of southern Lebanon, or either a massive airstrike or an air campaign against various targets inside of Lebanon. it's early yet that could occur. More strikes could be conducted. But this is a signal if the Israeli government and the Israeli Defense Forces say it was a kinetic strike against an identified target of an individual that conducted the command and control of that strike into, into Israel a few days ago. I think we're seeing a good thing. It's it's something that that I was talking to CNN on Saturday saying it would be devastating for Israel to open a second front with a major ground incursion or a massive air campaign. And it appears, at least so far, that they've limited their strikes to specifically the target that, was the commander of of the strike that occurred the other day. Yeah. if you could stand by for us, we'll come back to you. I do want to bring in Colorado Congressman Jason Crow, who we had stick around, with us as we got word of this news, is a former Army Ranger is also on the House, foreign affairs and Intel committees. As we get word of this, a targeted strike. Israel says Israeli military says on this Hezbollah commander that they say, was behind this attack that killed 12 children in northern Israel. What are you what are your thoughts as you see this news? Well, Israel absolutely has a right and I'd even say an obligation to respond to this attack that killed 12 children by Hezbollah. But why do we talk about issues of proportionality is that it goes directly to the concern about escalation and amount of talk about why escalation in this case is a is a larger concern than maybe it has been in the past. what we have to do is we have to zoom out and talk about Iran. Iran works through these regional proxies, these proxy forces. Right? Hamas is one of them. Hezbollah is one of them, the Houthis. They they have other militias and forces throughout the Middle East. But Hezbollah is the largest and the most capable of all of those proxy forces. Right. So the concern about escalation is the most acute when we're talking about Hezbollah. Right. The thing that could lead to a larger regional war is if Hezbollah opens up a northern front, they have far more rockets fire more personnel, far more sophisticated weaponry and more capability across the board. And that could be very devastating in the North. And Hezbollah has vowed that depending on the Israeli response, they wouldn't go to war with Israel alone. To your point, it would be these Iranian backed groups.
</doc>