<video_id>SvpifAzCMCI</video_id>
<video_title>Explosion interrupts live Gaza interview</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Explosion interrupts live Gaza interview.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231012</publish_date>

<doc>
Israel's military launched a new wave of airstrikes on the region Thursday morning. The Palestinian health ministry says more than 1200 people have been killed and at least 6000 wounded by Israeli bombardment. The health ministry says it expects hospitals to run out of fuel for generators today, leading to what it calls catastrophic conditions. Joining us now is no shower, Oxfam regional country relations manager in Gaza City. Najla, thank you so much for sparing this time to speak to us. I know that yesterday or certainly earlier this week, Oxfam was warning that what's happening in Gaza would lead to a humanitarian catastrophe. Would you say that's already begun? Yes. Hi. Thanks for having me, first of all. Yeah. It's very obvious that the crisis is increasing rapidly and there is a severe, severe impact on on the population of Gaza. The entire population of Gaza. The numbers of of displaced people has been increasing, reaching to around 200 plus thousand people within the Gaza Strip and some are are in and under U.N. administered schools trying to take shelters there. We are extremely worried because of the tightening of the Israeli siege. We have to be aware that the Israeli siege has been there for more than 15 years. And so when you ask me about electricity, we never had a full day of electricity since more than 15, 16 years. And now we have zero electricity before. At the best times we had to wait. And that's just an example at 8 hours. I mean, and currently we are extremely worried about the infrastructure that is responsible for delivering basic services such as water. So electricity affects water directly in the Gaza Strip. There is no ability to pump water to the networks. That's also in addition to that, severe damages. That is not yet clear. The the extent of the extent of it, that's apparently is going to be a very, very grave. And I think what is also most important to know that Gaza is already suffering before October 2nd, before October 7th, you will have half of the population under poverty. You are living in a situation when there is no economic viability of any activity. Israel has full control about on export and import. Israel conducts regular attacks and that affects livelihood groups within the Gaza Strip. So just in terms of your immediate concerns, obviously, Secretary Blinken is trying to organize a humanitarian corridor that's going to be very difficult to negotiate right now, isn't it, with the Israelis, because they're talking about a complete siege. But what is the most important thing that you need right now just to get through the next few days? What is really needed immediately is to have a ceasefire to to to allow people of Gaza to to receive support and basic services, to at least for the paramedics to be able to to have have some work around it, that hospitals hospitals are packed with with injuries. There are still injuries that are are everywhere. There is no accessibility to organizations on the ground to to deliver support. There's no ability for our population to move and get get what we need or, you know, get the water that we need or the food that we need. We need immediate, immediate ceasefire so that we are able also to support those who are under under these very, very harsh circumstances, especially who are taking shelter at the schools and who are being hosted in just very random places and public places around the Gaza Strip, I, I only want everyone I know person really is not living in their home. Everyone I know is is moving from one place to another, from a public place to another, at home to a relative, etc.. This must it must be stopped. And I think it's going to be very worrying in terms of supplies, food supplies, entry of medical supplies and all of these essential items. I mean, by the hour, that is. And severe, severe suffering in addition to the actual death in the in the hospitals themselves that are overloaded with with injuries and casualties from some of the bombings just. Please don't continue this interview. If you feel that you need to go somewhere else for your safety. Do you do you need to leave? It's fine. No, I'm good. It's not what it's like all the time. Yeah, I mean, exactly. Just this morning, there was a massive airstrike at Al-Shati camp, and it's it's extremely shocking the images. And I hope these images will make will make news out at your your channel, for example, where it seems there's a huge massacre. It's a densely populated area where just bodies are on the job. And I mean, I think the situation is extremely critical and negotiating safe passage. I'm not sure if this is going to be just to evacuate foreigners or that or who this does not really respond to what what would what people would need. Of course, it's an interesting you know, I just. Wanted to offer on your back, you know, you've just had that, you know, it was also a very close explosion and you just sat there and carried on with the interview. Whereas, you know what? You know, a lot of people watching would assume you would run off and go to some safe space. But is it because you just haven't got anywhere to go and you're just so used to it? Well, absolutely. Thank you. Thank you for raising this. I mean, in the entire Gaza Strip, I mean, we don't have shelters. I mean I mean, the best circumstances is that you go to I would love you know, I'm very lucky. I have a basement where that's why I'm receiving more than 12 people in addition to my family who are all now I'm hosting at my place. And so they are unable to go back to their homes because they are severely damaged. And my area that was wiped and we're managing to live together. So whenever that is something, you know, kind of close or big like this, we just, you know, walk around in the corridors and then slowly, slowly go to the lower level, etc.. And we we stick around each other. And that's what happened at 5 a.m. this morning, for example, when massive airstrikes were happening in the Gaza port and and the west, the western side of the city, just across across the street from me, that was the building that was totally destroyed. We had to evacuate. We we left running basically with in the middle of the night after 1 a.m. two nights ago. And all of us, we were 20, stopped at my house, 20, 20, 22 people who who fled their region came to us. Then we moved all of us to two different. We we split into two different places. we're talking about the mad situation here, a totally mad situation. And I should thank you so much for joining us this morning. Obviously, your priority is to help these people and these civilians. But this is obviously this is your life as well. And we've seen that expressed so obviously today. Best of luck with what you're doing and thank you for making the time. Thank you for having me.
</doc>