<video_id>jJkdgDneBho</video_id>
<video_title>Flags burned, monuments graffitied and US flags replaced with Palestinian ones by protesters</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Flags burned, monuments graffitied and US flags replaced with Palestinian ones by protesters.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240724</publish_date>

<doc>
Jonathan, you came from this address. You were in the hall in the, the House chamber. What was your impression of the speech? Knowing that he had multiple audiences there? Yeah, it was pretty extraordinary, Deanna. I mean, to be there in the chamber watching Prime Minister Netanyahu deliver those remarks were few things that stood out for me. Number one, it was a unity message. Like, literally, you had Democrats and Republicans standing up and applauding. You know, I thought there was going to be lots of empty seats. There simply weren't. It was a pretty full house. And he complimented President Biden and praised him as Jamie, said Andy Kaufman of President Trump of the Abraham Accords. So he was sort of finding a way to praise both sides. That's number one. Number two, he talked about anti-Semitism. He talked about what's happening on our college campuses, what's happening in the streets, and how that is not just about protesting policies of the government. You're seeing people going after Zionists and Jews. And literally while he was speaking outside of the Capitol, you had people burning American flags in front of Union Station. I saw signs as they came over here to the studio, people saying things like, any resistance is justified. I mean, comparing that those kind of that kind of language, when you think about the babies who were burned and the women who were raped. So he talked about that. That was important. And then thirdly, I think he laid out a path forward. He talked about hostages and needs to get them home. They talked about what a future could look like for Israel and a demilitarized Gaza, like a vision of peace. That, to me was really quite welcome. But there are a lot of dozens of Democrats boycotted the speech, didn't show up. A lot of those seats where the Democrats would have been seated were congressional staffers just showing up. They're sitting there. there may have been some empties, but I watched Hakeem Jeffries stand and applaud. I watched Chuck Schumer I watched almost every Democratic senator So I hear what you're saying. But I got to say, I saw unity in that room. I saw him try to appeal to both sides, and I saw people from both parties respond. What you do at the ADL is try to stamp out hate. Of course, anti-Semitism, hate against phobia, Islamophobia, racism, all of it. How do you think that Netanyahu's attempt to do that in his speech is going to play? I mean, I was getting a text from, one American Jew who said, okay, it's fine to call people useful idiots, but how about, like, a slight nod to people who are genuinely upset about the, what's happening in Gaza? Well, I, I'm not. And understanding that you're also saying the signs that you just described, which is just plain hate. And he talked about the director of national intelligence acknowledging a few weeks ago that Iran is involved in these protests, something we've been seeing NATO for a long time. But he did something very interesting, Diana, before the speech really got started. He called out some of the folks that he had brought over as part of his delegation, including, for example, a Bedouin soldier. Which was interesting, cause I think most Americans don't realize there Israeli Muslims in the IDF. And then he had an Ethiopian Israeli soldier who ran eight miles on October the 7th. So I point this out because he demonstrated the diversity of Israeli society. I think you pointed this out earlier in a way that surprised a lot of people. He could have come with just decorated Jewish veterans. He didn't do that. He brought a more diverse delegation. And I think that sends a message. I just to push back just a little bit about about all the unity, you know, several Israelis from both sides of the aisle were texting me during the speech. And what I heard from them is that that was, in effect, a very celebratory speech. that really does not fit and that there is an alternate reality on the ground that's going on both in Gaza and in Israel. As we know, in the north, 60,000 plus Israelis, are displaced. There has been an extraordinary impact on the economy. And then, of course, there is the devastating reality of the number of deaths in Gaza, Palestinians, the humanitarian disaster. So, he had a welcome audience there today, but he did ignore what I'm hearing from Israelis is a very dire reality on the ground. Look, there is no question that that is an incredibly difficult situation. And every civilian life lost is a tragedy. Every Palestinian woman or child who was killed inadvertently, no matter what the IDF tries to do, that is a tragedy. We should mourn every one of those deaths. But he talked about, for example, the dire situation in Gaza and how they are trying to bring in supplies. He talked about the situation in the North, like you're pointing out, and the need to bring those people back to their homes, 60 or 80,000 Israelis. And he talked about the need to bring the hostages home. I know at ADL and we're folks at fighting aid here at home, but we all wear the dog tags because we want these civilians, these innocent people back, including, by the way, dozens of them. I think maybe it's eight Americans at this point. So I think he tried to address that, Jamie. But look, if you've lost a child, if you're I think about my friends, the Polands. I was with the Nazis before we came on. Their. Their sons are both held in Gaza. I can't even begin to grasp the unspeakable pain they deal with every day. We have got to get those kids home. So I hope they get a deal very fast. So we can see on air. And we can see Hersh back home, safe and sound. And all the hostages, once and for all. Hope there is a deal that will bring those hostages home as quickly as possible. Jonathan Greenblatt, thanks very much. Jamie, thanks to you as well. I want to go see this, began Mark, as he's been covering the demonstrators out there in the streets of Washington. Jamie, give us a sense of what's been going on. lots and lots of demonstrators and protesters throughout the Capitol around the Capitol building. But I won't say it all ended here at Union Station. This is the remnants of one U.S. flag that was burned here over in the distance. So you can see the the ashes there. That's the remnants of another flag. I want to show you sort of the bell over here, though. The liberty, the copy of the Liberty Bell that's out in front of the station that's been covered in graffiti. And then the Columbus Memorial has also been covered in graffiti here. And, Jonathan, if you can show all three U.S. flags on the three flagpoles, massive flag poles out in front of Union Station have been pulled down and Palestinian flags have been put up in their place. Most the protesters a few dozen, maybe 100 or so, still gathered here. Most of the protesters have left, but you can see the number of police officers And I'm looking over across the way here, and there are lots of police with shields now and heavy vehicles. So it looks like most protesters are leaving and police will come back in and bring this place back to order. Well all right media, let's hope it's peaceful over there. Bigo Marquez reporting for us. Thanks very much. Now. Thank you so much. And with us now is Republican Senator John Thune of South Dakota. Senator, thank you so much for being here. Really great to see you and to have you here. first, generally speaking, your reaction to Prime Minister Netanyahu's remarks. strong speech. And, as as is usually the case with, the Prime minister, very well articulated. and I thought he he hit all the right points. I think the one thing that he needs to do for people in this country, and for that matter, people, all around the world is connect the dots back to Iran. And the fact that Israel is the only thing standing between Iran and the United States, which they consider to be the great Satan. And so Iran is behind all the mining activities in that region. whether it's Hezbollah in the in the north or the Houthis in Yemen, or Hamas, right there in the Gaza Strip. But I thought he was really effective in in that in particular, and also articulating a vision of what it could like, could look like in the future if you had an integrated Middle East and a direct allies demilitarized, Gaza. And that, of course, means that you've got to get rid and eliminate Hamas. I want to get back to what you were just talking about. Back to the Prime Minister speech in a second. I'm not sure if you were able to hear our reporter, Miguel Marquez, who was talking about the protesters outside. Specifically, he was reporting on and showing, the American flag being lowered, the Palestinian flag being raised. We even saw some red triangles. we're showing it now. I don't know if you can see it, but we even saw some red triangles on some of the statues. what's your reaction to that? Well, I think it's it's disgraceful. It's, shameful and the kind of thing that we shouldn't see in this country. But again, as the Prime Minister pointed out today, a lot of these activities that are happening here in the United States, Iran is behind them. They are trying to create tumult and instability and chaos and, use in fueling all these protests and the violence, particularly the anti-Semitic violence in this country. that's Iranian activity. And that's why they have to be stopped, and that's why it's so important that we continue to support Israel, including, as the Prime minister said, give us the tools faster and we will finish the job. they've got to get this, this thing over with and, and send a clear statement to the world that this kind of behavior and the kind of thing that we're seeing right here in the U.S. and right here in this city today, just can't be tolerated. one of Prime Minister Netanyahu's predecessors, Ehud Barak, who we understand and we should tell our viewers who might not know, is not from the same party as Prime Minister Netanyahu. and but nonetheless, he has somebody he's somebody who has been intimately involved in trying to get to peace. He almost got there, when Bill Clinton had him and Yasser Arafat in 2000, here in the United States. He said very, very strongly and very clearly to Wolf, that he does not believe that Prime Minister Netanyahu actually wants to end the war because it would mean the end of his own political viability at home. And that might even mean, that hostages stay longer. Are you concerned about I mean, you're a politician. You understand what's going on in Israel? Are you concerned about the notion that Bibi Netanyahu isn't trying as hard as he can to get this deal because of his own concerns about his own future? I don't think that I've met with him in Israel. I've met with, Ehud Barak in Israel, previously as well. And obviously they have political differences there. But those aside, my sense coming out of this was is he is desperate to end this because this is putting the lives of Israeli citizens at risk every single day.
</doc>