<video_id>wSbnaKBRTqM</video_id>
<video_title>Former Defense Secretary discusses the role the US plays in Middle East tensions</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Former Defense Secretary discusses the role the US plays in Middle East tensions.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240809</publish_date>

<doc>
International pressure is clearly building on both Israel and Hamas to return to negotiations to end the war in Gaza and to release the remaining hostages. This new push, underscored by a grave global concern right now, that the region, this region in the Middle East where I am, is inching closer and closer to the threat of a much wider scale conflict. Israel is bracing for strikes from Iran and its heavily armed proxies after it killed Hezbollah and Hamas leaders just last week. The source familiar with the discussions tells CNN that the talks are scheduled. The mediator talks are scheduled for next Thursday, August 15th. The Israeli Prime Minister's office says Israel will send the negotiations team to the talks. The U.S., Qatar and Egypt have issued this joint statement. They're leading this effort, the trio of mediators say. And I'm quoting now, there is no further time to waste, nor excuses from any party for further delay. It is time to release the hostages, begin the cease fire and implement this agreement. That's the end of the quote from those three mediators. Let's dig deeper right now. Joining us, Leon Panetta. He served as U.S. defense secretary and CIA director under President Obama. Mr. Secretary. Always good to have you join us here on CNN. Thanks very much. And as you heard that, as, you know, Egypt, Israel and cutter, they want both Israel and Hamas to resume cease fire and hostage negotiations this coming week. In your opinion, Mr. Secretary, how likely is that to happen? Well, one thing we know for sure, and you're there, Wolf, is that this is a very dangerous moment, in which, without question, if, the wrong steps are taken by Iran and Hezbollah, we can have a larger war on our hands. on the other hand, because, there are a number of nations, that you mentioned that are working, diplomatically to try to get, Iran and Hezbollah and others to back down, and hopefully be able to engage, in negotiations, get back to the negotiating table. I'm, I'm sure that it's having some impact. but right now, I think the situation is one that is a crisis situation. And I think that I worry, frankly, that, that this could result in an escalated war. There. Yeah. All of us are worried about that possibility, especially those of us who are here in the region. Mr. Secretary, the Biden administration says it will defend Israel if it comes under attack. What should the Biden administration be doing right now, do you think, to potentially not further inflame the regional tensions that are underway? Well, look, I think the most important thing that the United States is doing right now is deploying our military capabilities to the region in order to make sure that we have in place everything we need in order to defend against airstrikes in Israel. you know, Iran crossed the line, in April in sending, almost 300 missiles into Israel itself. Unfortunately, because, our allies, Israel, others were able to knock down a lot of those missiles, almost 90% of those missiles. what happened did not escalate the situation there. Whether or not that can happen again, I think is what what we're all looking at. but having the United States having the time to be able to deploy our destroyers, to deploy our, our air capabilities there as well, and to prepare for that possibility is probably the most important thing that the United States can do right now and also hopefully urge Israel and the parties to get back to the negotiating table. You were the U.S. defense secretary. You know the region well. You know the issues, very, very closely. how would you be handling what's going on right now if you were still the defense secretary? And I asked the question specifically because Israel is now a member of the U.S. military's Central Command, which is in charge of the whole Middle East, as opposed to when you were defense secretary as part of the European Command. What's the what? What does that what what does that suggest to you about the potential difference? Well, what it what it means is that there's, a larger direct focus, on Israel and, on Israel's enemies. and that means that, the United States plays a much more important role in terms of trying to defend Israel. and that's that's as it should be. the issue then becomes, if in fact, Iran or the proxies decide to conduct a massive attack, a lot of innocent Israelis are killed. it leaves the United States very little option but to go in and help defend Israel in that kind of war. And not just with, military equipment, but with troops as well. Is that what you're saying? Well, you know, you'd like to believe that, we could provide the military capabilities as we have been. in order to be able to ensure that Israel, can do the fighting and do the fighting effectively, I think we'll try to exhaust that option. But when you're in an escalated war, everything is on the table. Yeah, that's what I'm hearing as well. let me return to the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. he gave an exclusive interview to time magazine. Secretary, and Netanyahu, pushes back against claims that he's, drawing out the Gaza campaign to ensure that he remains in political office. He calls that accusation against him a canard. Do you feel that Prime Minister Netanyahu has resisted a cease fire deal for personal political reasons, as some are alleging? You know, I, I've known, Netanyahu for a long time, going back to the Clinton administration. he's he's committed to two things. He's committed to the survival of Israel, but he's also committed to his own survival in office. and that combination, means that while he's a fighter, he's not much of a peacemaker. And that is the Netanyahu that we're dealing with now. In that same time magazine interview, Netanyahu was asked about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. He denied that Israel has failed to do enough to aid civilians, saying this, and I'm quoting him now. We've gone out of our way to enable humanitarian assistance since the beginning of the war. Clearly, the Biden administration, Mr. Secretary, doesn't necessarily agree with his assessment. Do you? Well, I you know, I not Netanyahu sees the situation through his eyes. and, that's not necessarily what's really happening. you know, he he will he will make the case that somehow, Israel bears no responsibility for the humanitarian crisis, in Gaza. but that's not the that's not really the facts. anybody who's been there, anybody who's seen that situation, knows very well that, yeah, Israel is obviously focused on fighting a war, and not really doing very much with regards to humanitarian assistance. and so, right now, the continuing fighting in Gaza, the, the threat of an even larger war with Iran, and its proxies. I think I think what you're going to see is a very hard line. Netanyahu, trying to confront a very hard line. Iran. Would you be surprised, Mr. Secretary? if Israel launched a preemptive strike right now against his Hezbollah forces in Lebanon for, for example, and maybe even against Iranian forces inside Iran? Well, I'm sure that kind of thinking is on the table. If they if they determined that they have intelligence on a potential attack against Israel, my sense would be that they would take the opportunity, to, to to do a precipitous attack in order to stop, that kind of, of confrontation. So, yeah, I think they're looking at all the options right now. but clearly what is happening now is that it's a wait and see game. to determine just whether or not, Iran and Hezbollah are going to take a major step that will, in fact, escalate the war. look, the record here is that everybody is pushing now to try to to try to hopefully reduce the chances for that kind of escalation that's worked in the past. I think the hope is that it can work now. Let's hope it does. Leon Panetta, the former defense secretary, former CIA director, as usual, thank you very much for your analysis. We appreciate it.
</doc>