
<doc>
They absolutely put on a show to dress me up in nice clothes and shoes before I was released, when my girls and I were barefoot for 50 days and we were cold because we were wearing short sleeves in November. It's one big show journey to share, opening up and revealing what really happened to her and her two young daughters. While held captive by Hamas for nearly 50 days. Once you got into Gaza, what happened again? But then we got into our hiding place, an apartment that belonged to a family. We were inside the room without the ability to get out, of course. Closed door, closed window. And after 16 days, they relocated us to another place, a so-called hospital. Did anyone tell you what was going on, why you were there? Were they members of Hamas? They didn't give us a lot of information. They mainly tried to say that Hamas wants to release us. But in Israel, no one cares about us, which wasn't true. We didn't believe most of the stuff that they were saying. And of course, it wasn't true. Just over the border in Israel, Darren's husband, Yoni, never gave up hope. Why is daddy not coming? The stuff that they've seen on October 7th, I couldn't hide from them. It's like we were in a war movie. But after that, it was very important to me that they wouldn't feel a danger. And I told them there are no terrorists anymore and we are good people who are guarding us until we can return home. Were they good to you? The people at our welcome, they didn't physically harm me, but there was a lot of psychological warfare. Like, what challenges are that we want to return to live in the kibbutz? Because it's not our house. It's not the place where we belong. Did you know if they were Hamas or just citizens in Gaza at a local level? They didn't give me a lot of info about them. I don't even know their names. I guess that the father is with Hamas, but they didn't even give me much info. I just know he worked at Israel in the past, and that's how he knows Hebrew and that's how we communicated. Were there other children there can? Yes. He had children and grandchildren, and basically his children were watching us. 24 seven. I asked every day about my family if they knew anything about Gary, about my brother. About my brother's baby girl. They didn't give me any answers. Why do you think they moved you after 16 days?  I think they tried to get our hostages together because the day that we arrived to this so-called hospital, other hostages arrived there as well. And that was the first time that I've met other hostages. Why do you keep saying so-called hospital hospital needs to treat sick people? It doesn't hold hostages. There were a few times when the girls had high fever and they were sick and I had to take care of them and I needed to get the medication. So they brought someone who they said that was a doctor And the next day I got medication from him for the girls. But it wasn't enough. I used to put a wave in the sink with cold water to bring down her temperature, but she was screaming and they would tell us to keep quiet. And the girl had high fever, but I had to take care of her somehow. And were you worried that by mistake that you and your girls would have been in danger as Israel was trying to retrieve you? I heard the fighting. And yes, we were scared. The noises were very strong, very loud. But at least that's how we knew that something was going on in order to get us back home to put the pressure on Hamas to release us. What did you fear the most when you were there? surprisingly it was the day that we were released They were smuggling us out of the hospital and they got us on a Hamas vehicle to get to a meeting point with the Red Cross. We waited a long time for the Red Cross, and we were very scared because we didn't know what was going on. No one gave us any info. Once the Red Cross vehicles had arrived, thousands of Gazans, thousands children, elderly everyone came in and started to climb on the cars and bang on the cars. I was holding my girls and I was scared of a lynch mob. And this was the first time that Rose has said to me, after a month and a half of me protecting her mommy, I'm scared. Today, the girls are back in kindergarten and with family therapy for the most part, are readjusting well. There was one day that they saw a tractor here and they asked if the evil men are here. And I had to tell them, no, the tractor does not belong to the evil men. The evil men are in jail. And while they mourn their grandmother, my mom, Doron, says the healing cannot really begin until all of the remaining 129 hostages are released. Including God, Moses, I. The word has to understand the reality that the hostages are in. I don't want to think about how they're treating men. They're how they're treating the young women that are there. People who kidnap children and old people are not human.
</doc>