<video_id>0W57OwQkaEg</video_id>
<video_title>Hamas propaganda video shows guerrilla warfare tactics</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hamas propaganda video shows guerrilla warfare tactics.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231110</publish_date>

<doc>
US military now what it calls the heart of Gaza City. They said today it destroyed more tunnels used by Hamas. According to the IDF, these tunnels were located near a school sponsored by the UN. The IDF also announced they had destroyed at least 130 tunnel shafts since the start of the war. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said earlier this week that Israel would maintain security over the Gaza Strip for, quote, an indefinite period. For Germany, Diamond has more, including new footage of what that urban combat looks like. An Israeli armored vehicle advances through the Al-Shati refugee camp, but an ambush awaits. Moments earlier, the same video shows a Hamas fighter armed with a rocket propelled grenade moving slowly from behind the rubble. These are Hamas propaganda videos from the perspective of its fighters showing Hamas militants peering around buildings and through the rubble before striking armored vehicles. CNN has geolocated several videos released in recent days to northern Gaza in Beit Hanoun, a Tatra and the Shati refugee camp indicating Hamas is likely still mounting attacks in areas. Israeli forces entered over a week ago. The videos provide a limited window into the group's guerrilla tactics and the threats Israeli forces face as they move deeper into Gaza. As we are moving in, we're fighting more and more close combat urban combat type engagements. The Israeli military says its forces have encircled and are now operating in the heart of Gaza City, where they face the dangers of dense urban combat and a vast network of tunnels Hamas fighters are using to sneak up on Israeli forces. The nature of urban warfare is that, you know, they go down a tunnel and come up somewhere else. And that is exactly why we are moving slowly. We're not advancing. We're not rushing into this. We're taking strategic positions. Israeli forces say they've destroyed 130 Hamas tunnels, shafts like this one since launching their ground offensive. We're just scratching the surface of that. But many more still remain. German Dymond joins us now. What's the latest on evacuation options for civilians in Gaza? Well, Anderson, in recent days, tens of thousands of Palestinian civilians have use those evacuation corridors established by the Israeli military over the last several days to flee south. In fact, just today, according to the United Nations. 50,000 people took advantage of a five hour window to evacuate south using Salahadin Road, one of the main arteries going north south in the Gaza Strip. And all of this, Anderson, comes not only as the Israeli military is ramping up its military operations in northern Gaza, but also, of course, as the humanitarian situation there has grown worse. Access to clean water is extremely limited. Hospitals are running out of medical supplies, running out of fuel to carry out even basic operational matters. And Israeli officials are, of course, ramping up their ground offensive in northern Gaza. Israeli officials now saying that Israeli troops are operating pressing forward with this advance as the Israeli prime minister vows no cease fire unless hostages are released Anderson. Jeremy Diamond, thanks so much. Many Palestinian Americans who made it out of Gaza are just now getting home, facing a very particular heartache. The relief obviously, to be safe, but worried every moment about their friends and family who are not. My next guests are Americans who, along with their almost two year old son, were in Gaza on October seven, visiting family. They just got back to their home, Massachusetts, rather. Earlier this week, Abood Okal and Wafaa Abouzeid to join us now. Welcome home. First of all, how do you feel? Are you exhausted? We feel I had a mixed feeling, to be honest. I feel I'm happy because we're safe here. We're back. But our thinking minds in Gaza, because I still have my parents over there, Abu Experience. I'm still over there. We take them every every minute to make sure they're okay. We made it here just because of Yousef. I want to make sure he's. He's okay. He is of his. Your. Your baby. Yousef is my baby. He's. He's going to turn two years next. Next month. You got home in time for his birthday? Yeah. Yeah. What was. You had gone there both to visit family, and you had spent a couple of weeks there. Obviously, you had no idea this all was about to happen. When did you realize? Was it on the morning of October 7th that you realized something has happened? Exactly. Yeah. I think that October 7th, we it was 6:00 in the morning local time. And I think I remember hearing sounds of rockets launching. And I woke up Wafa and I said, I think that is the sound of rockets. And we checked out the windows and indeed it was. And then a few minutes later, we were trying to look at news and and then it was unclear at the beginning. But then in a couple of hours as news rolled out of of what was happening that day, we realized that we are we are in trouble and that this is this is a this is going to be a big event. What was that going south? Was it difficult? And once you actually got together and headed down there, it was chaotic. I think early that day when we heard the announcement by the IDF to head south, there was no timeline given. There were no specific instructions other than just go to South of Wadi Reza, which is basically Gaza Valley, a landmark. So everyone scrambled at this point. I mean, did you think the border might still be open? Because I mean, there was so much misinformation, so much I mean, people didn't know what was going on, but that Rafah border has been shut this whole time. So did you think you could get out at that point or just thought, get south and we'll figure it out? Yeah, we tried a couple of times going to Rafah border, but every time we wait for a couple of hours and the gate, it's not opening, so I'll leave. And you were you were a house staying with dozens of other people. Yeah. 40 people. 40 people. 40 people. Yeah. We used to share everything with 40 people and getting supplies and things. What was that like? It was so difficult. It was. You had a Your baby needs milk. Oh, yeah. Even that is even that. Yeah. We. We used to wake up every morning thinking about, like, how we're going to get water, bread, food a boy would use to go with his brother, waiting on the line, getting water and and bread and come back after seven, 6 hours with one gallon of water for 40 people and then like pieces of bread, it's not enough for 40 people. So we used to share with what with the child's. I mean, I think about it. I mean, obviously all those kids, which was he was really scared. I mean, what was his sense of what was going on? I don't myself, I have to be relaxed when I when I hear all the sounds. So I started to teach him, okay, this is what you hear. This is a fireworks. Remember the 4th of July? It's the same thing. I don't know if I don't think he trusted me. I don't think he believed that this is a fireworks. And there's some point. The middle ground. At some point. The milk did run out. Yeah. The we are now in the beginning because I knew it's we're going to run out at some point. So I started to reduce has his bottle like from pole model to half bottle giving him. So the last five days or a week so we run completely out of milk. I used to give him water instead of milk. It's got to be this strange feeling of being relieved that you're out. And yet your family's there. We're still processing what we experienced. I can't believe. I can't believe our short trip just turned to the nightmare. And even though we're physically out, I think mentally we're still there. I think at some points it cannot be a worse to be on the outside. Nothing is worse than being inside of Gaza right now. Whether if you're not dying from from the airstrikes or shelling, you're you're you're at higher risk of dying because of dehydrate and lack of food. And and despite that little aid that's coming in, it's it's not really making. It's not moving the needle. Well, thank you so much. I'm so glad your your your back. And I'm. But I understand that that tug and that feel of family left behind. I'm sorry that. That you have that. Thanks for having us. Yeah, Thank you. Thank you, Anderson.
</doc>