<video_id>2UoGKEuW7jI</video_id>
<video_title>Hamas will pay ‘the way the Nazis paid in Europe,' says former IDF intel chief</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hamas will pay ‘the way the Nazis paid in Europe,' says former IDF intel chief.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231011</publish_date>

<doc>
Now we're going to bring in the retired major general and former head of Israeli military intelligence, Amos Yadlin. He's also joining us from Tel Aviv. Welcome to the program. You heard what I was asking the IDF spokesperson. And obviously it's very, very tough to figure out how to avenge this mass murder while also, as he says, respecting the laws of war. And also, as President Biden has said, that that must happen in all your EU and U.N. supporters as well. So what do you think Amos Yadlin might happen in the coming up as this massacres are avenged When the defense minister, Yoav Gallant, says they've removed all restraints from their soldiers, what what do you think that might mean And, you know, we have to remember what happened on Saturday, more than 1200 Israeli citizens were killed brutally by the terror organization called Hamas. And, by the way, by citizens from Gaza that follows them. It was a poor dawn. People were killed in families, children, women, and women were raped. People were killed. Babies were beheaded. This is something that you should not put behind you. It's very much like September 11, and it's very much like your war on ISIS. And when the U.S. attack Mosul or Vacca, is there will some collateral damage. And this is what is going to happen to Gaza, because Israel that helped the people of Gaza by letting them come to work in Israel by letting them have the capacity money were misled by unbelievable brutal government of Hamas. And this government of Hamas is going to pay the way the Nazis paid in Europe. The way I speak to them, they're tied up, paid when they attacked Americans. So it weakens the rules of the game. However, we will continue to fight according to the international law, as American forces, if both according to the international law and the lesson of law, we say if you want to win the war, you have to target your your enemy. And there is the proportionality and proportionality principle that allow that some collateral damage will be there to achieve that objective of winning the war. And we are in war. I know that. And I now want to ask you from your perspective and from what you know from your position what is the actual objective? I don't know whether an actual objective has been announced by the prime minister, other than, you know, obviously avenging what happened and also decimating and changing the rules of the game, decimating Hamas. And as one IDF spokesman said today, changing the rules of the day. What exactly does that mean? Does that mean, you know, fighting until there's no longer Hamas in charge or anywhere able to exert any authority in Gaza Yeah. Changing the paradigm. The paradigm was we can live with Hamas. It is a determined organization. It's a we may need to have a mini wall around every four or five years, but they will not go to a full scale war. This paradigm was wrong. We allowed them to build up a military that threaten Israel and destroy a the whole region of Western the Negev. This is not going to happen again. So to your question, there is a objective is to reduce Hamas, get the ability to threaten Israel to the minimum possible. And this means destroying their military power and destroying the government's power. So does that mean I won't. Yadlin. Does that mean does that mean that Israel. Then what? Then what happens? Does Israel is Israel also counting in the possibility of of going back in and ruling what happens when that happens? We will do what is needed at that time. We are still in the process of cleaning, which the Negev will Hamas militants and restore their defense. But in the same time, the Israeli Air Force is conducting a very aggressive air bombing campaign against any targets that belongs to Hamas in Gaza. And unlike the past, we are not giving a specific warning. In the past, we used to pick the phone and call the police and send them please evacuate your apartment. Not anymore. Anything that connected to Hamas, a command post intelligence for logistic production will be targeted all over Gaza until we will reduce the capability to threaten Israel. Close to zero. Close to zero. And I must tell you another thing. We are living in the Middle East as we. So when you are weak and your enemy taking over. It's a full blown we need to show to demonstrate to other enemies like Hezbollah, like Syria, like Iran, that anybody who is dreaming about a duplicating what Hamas has done will suffer some things that they haven't dream about. And Gaza is a way to rebuild our deterrence. So it's going to be very very aggressive campaign. I hear you loud and clear, and I guess everybody will be hearing you. So I guess I want to ask you, you're saying very clearly to rebuild the deterrence because I'm assuming you agree what happened on Saturday knocked the superiority of Israel on its head. I mean, the idea that the military, the intelligence, everybody was caught so much by surprise, destroyed the the decades old myth of Israel's superiority. I assume that's what you're saying. And you need to regain that. But how do you imagine as head of former head of military intelligence that that happened in the first place? I tell you again, there will be a real campaign against any target belong to Hamas in August and there are thousands of. And then and then don't rule out a military move on the globe. Because I'm a big believer in airpower. I'm a fighter pilot in my bedroom. But there are places and missions that cannot be done from there. So I don't rule out the in a ground operation that once again will go to every place that we know that Hamas, especially the leader, that all the leaders, that all the air they attack, they will not be in Gaza at the end of the day. They will not be in the most. Yadlin. And I want to continue. I you to the north, because what is happening in Gaza may affect the north, but we can speak about it tomorrow. Yes. We are keeping an eye on it, by the way. And we did ask the IDF spokesman and. And thank you very much indeed for your for being with us tonight.
</doc>