<video_id>WOU0UAsJvE4</video_id>
<video_title>Hear Israeli president's apology to family of killed hostage Hersh Goldberg-Polin at his funeral</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hear Israeli president's apology to family of killed hostage Hersh Goldberg-Polin at his funeral.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240902</publish_date>

<doc>
at the white House. President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris will hold a critical meeting with the U.S. hostage negotiating team in hopes of crafting a cease fire deal to free the people Hamas took captive during the October 7th terror attack on Israel, 97 hostages are still being held, including seven Americans. Of those Americans, four are believed to still be alive. This weekend's discovery of six hostages killed in a Hamas tunnel underscores the sense of urgency Israel calls it, quote, cold blooded murder. Minutes ago, a funeral began for the young man on your far left Israeli American. Hirsh Goldberg. Poland, Israel's president, apologized to the family in his eulogy. As a human being, as a father, and as the president of the state of Israel, I want to say how sorry I am, how sorry I am, that we didn't protect others on that dark today. I'm sorry I am that we failed to bring him home in his life and in his death touched all of humanity deeply. He has changed the world and woven his essence of light and love into the story of the Jewish people and into our human story forever. This morning I saw a clip of a vigil. It took place in New York last night, appropriate that the crowd was singing unevenly time, and some of them, you and I will change the world for 23 years of life that we had with you were blessing. We now will work to make your legacy a similar blessing. You are a really great guy. I love you. For the families of the hostages, it has been nearly 11 months of torment and agonizing disappointment. I want to bring in the parents of 20 year old Eden Alexander. He is an American member of the Israeli Defense Forces, and has been held hostage since the Hamas terror attack on October 7th and Yale. Alexander joins joined us now from New York. how is the family holding up? yeah. I'll, I'll go to you first. And, your response to, what's taking place in Israel right now. Hi. Good morning. Jim. what happened in Israel now that everybody at the streets, there was a strike today? Everyone was just screaming and being with the family. And just to make sure that they're going to seal the deal, they're going to bring our loved ones home. Safety like, right. They're doing whatever they can just to make a noise. It's not a political issue, it's humanitarian issue. And to see all the crowds and on the streets, we are not alone. You know, we are fighting this fight for 332 days. It's almost 11 months that our son is not with us, he's not with the family, and we are going to do everything in our power to make it happen and to bring him home and to bring the other hostages home. well, I just want to say that you are definitely not alone. We're all thinking about you. We're all praying for other safe return. I do want to play a little bit of what President Biden, said, just a few moments ago about all of us. Let's listen, Mr. President, if you think it's time for prayer, Prime Minister Netanyahu, to do more on this issue, do you think he's doing enough? No. So you hear the president there saying he doesn't think the Prime minister is doing enough. What is your thought on that? I think he's absolutely right. from the get go, the, US government, we in touch with the U.S. government. As you know, we met Jake Sullivan yesterday for 15 times, and we don't see the same, sense of urgency and the same dedication from the Israelis as we see from the Americans. And, this is devastating. And it's, actually, very surprising. Do you think, what more could be done? First of all, on Netanyahu's government, they have to stop to move the goalpost of the, negotiation. They have to stop to undermine the negotiating team itself, and they have to seal the deal. Enough. It's enough. Exactly. They need to bring the hostages back home. That's it. It's 11 months. We don't have time like we saw on Saturday. What happened? They murder them over there, so they need to understand. That's why we urge them since the beginning, that it's. They don't have time. They leave it. Hell. And when you say that Netanyahu keeps moving the goalposts, what do you mean by that? I mean that I mean by that, to ramp up additional demand and, the, Philadelphia, crossing as, sticking point of the negotiations. This is unacceptable. They put a proposal back in, May and of May just stick to this proposal. They need to move on and to show us that they want the hostages back. Now, I like I don't know, I don't know if it's going to happened. Right. And I do want to share some of the essay that you both wrote for the New York Times. We can show this to our viewers. It's not just the fear of losing our son that now keeps us up at night. It's the fact that his murder is becoming the more probable outcome. And we have no faith in Mr. Netanyahu's will to change that. as a parent, reading that just breaks my heart. how do you find the hope that Eden is still alive? First we have, some, eyewitnesses that were released back in November that he's that he alive? so, we just sticking to this hope that he's a strong. He's a strong kid. He was a professional swimmer in high school. Is like, we call people flight. And he's a good, like, is amazingly done. And I'm hoping that is strong. And he knows that we are fighting for him. And he will come back home. And we're looking at some pictures of it on now. And he just looks like a remarkable young man. tell us a little bit more about him. he done, I don't know, he's got this beautiful smile. He love, like to be with friends. He love to party, love to be at, at the beach. He loved to go to restaurants like this. Is he done? when we've been here in New York, we went to art shows like, whatever we can to to live life like this. Is he done for us? And I'm hoping it's going to happen soon. Like we can reunite the whole family and we will continue. And what has it been like, being a part of this, community now, I suppose, of other families who are in the same situation. How do you support one another, lean on one another, to get, try to get through this? Yeah. We are all big family. And, with the lost of heroes on Saturday, we are devastating. We were crying. We are broken. We are. You know, we. You know, this is really tough. This is really, really tough. But at the end of the day, you have to have hope in all of this. Absolutely. the hope this is what, holding us up. Hope is mandatory. Life is mandatory. Like, Rachel said and, but said we don't have a choice. We are going to continue fighting till they all come back. And what what would be your message to Prime Minister Netanyahu? you've been very critical of him. if you could say something if he were watching, if his team was watching, what would you say? He promised us something on the white House in front of Biden and Sullivan last July. You want to tell him that he will, proceed the deal? But our message. Do not delay it. Just do not delay the deal. Military. More military pressure brings more of that. Hostages. Let's execute the deal and cross the finish line. All right, y'all, and Audie Alexander, parents of Iran. thank you so much for speaking with us. As I said earlier, we're all thinking about you and your family and all of the families, and praying for the safe return of those hostages. Thank you so much. We really appreciate it. Thank you for having us. Thank you. All right.
</doc>