<video_id>dAUW_XftETg</video_id>
<video_title>Hear woman’s account of her capture by Hamas and escape</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hear woman’s account of her capture by Hamas and escape.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231024</publish_date>

<doc>
That was hysterical. We are driving for 5 minutes. And then he saw me get, you know, a shout out new kibbutz very okay. So he stopped there without telling me. He decided to stop. He was very afraid to go out from the car and go to the magnet So I'm going after him. After 20 minutes, we start to hear shootings and s Yeah, and some guys tell us there are terrorists sti So I'm calling talent, and there are terrorists here. Let's go. We are going to the car very fas drive for. And when we are going to the car we can see them going and shooti everybody out. You can see them. Yeah. To there where we start shooting, all of the traffic is slow down. And we see that there are pre-Katrina with gunshot end. So we are doing a turn off and get into what's they into the center of the kibbutz. We are putting our car in some place and knock on the people door and one families ope It was 7:00 in the morning. We told them we are Israeli we look like Israelis. Also came for the father. You know, we are fighting the rockets and we are here. Please help us. They immediately give us the shelter and they are like 70 years old. Tal was very stoical and the the woman was very healthy and s you know, she was very calm. Yeah, she very calm. And she explained to him to rela and then we start knowing each o and in seven and a half they are SMS and WhatsApp, their messages, they are terrorists in the kibbu and everybody need to go to the  to the safe to do so for room. And the time is ticking. Okay. And then like a 12 for 12 sign that a half a dozen. This is after 5 hours. Yeah. We sit in in 5 hours in this roo and in the, in this time people  writing the what's up. Something like that. Oh, I'll say it into my home. They are shouting and then we do she doesn't answer anymore. And like this, did you realize when that happen that they were being killed? Yeah. Because there's no answer. So we don't know we killed or. Right. We were very innocent. You understand we didn't think about these thin in 2:00. Understand us again. The terrorist is 7 hours. Yeah. New hour hours. 5 minutes after that, we are hearing trash all over th You were hearing shotgun shots and a lot of screa I understand that there was no o or sweet always. You had a lot of people, a lot o And that moment when you're sitt are the four of you and they're  why you even imagine how you fel I didn't believe that it happene And they the the owner of the ho is holding the, you know, the door the door hand And for one hour, we are in succ not to let them go into the to the safety of them, but they are screaming all over and you know, and after 50 minutes they slow everyone a grenade, they throw a and go, was black and after 10 minutes they succeeded to open the window to the door of the safety room and ask for the and that's to su because meanwhile we are hiding in the closet. So they didn't know that we are  but 2 minutes after they taken u the door is open and we terroris and put in a gun to our head and I mean did you I didn't think yo I see before you even able to th that I think about my children that they are going to lose thei for nothing because I didn't supposed to be  It was I was so sad that I'm probably going to die for nothing because I didn't do  I'm just maybe going to kill because I'm Jewish. Okay. At least ten, ten terrorists taking two of us to another whole I don't know from where I have this courage to do what I but the the the terrorist, the talk Hebrew he see me that I'm looking at th I, you know, I looked at them like he told me, calm down. Calm We don't want to kill you. We just want to take you through And he tells me, he asked me, you have friends from the police or the army. And I said to him, Yeah. So he told me, so let's call one So I told him my phone is still  I'm mad at you. Technically, I don't have my pho and I don't remember numbers. And then he bring another phone, we called 109. Well, while the police is answering and I'm talking is them, I'm talking enable I'm telling m Hello, my name is Yasmin. I'm in Kibbutz Marie and we kidn We are hostages in in the house, in the kibbutz. Please come. Why did they want the police to  They want to kidnap. That's that's what's funny. They saw the the roads the army is there, so they want to stay alive. So they thought that if they took you to Gaza, the IDF would could kill them. Yeah, if the IDF wasn't there. But they didn't know. Yeah. After 2 hours, the police arrived, and so jeeps, everybody get to stress the terr put the guards, you know, shots starting to to happen between the both sides and it's one, two, three, and th Wow, 100. We all the hostages and the terr we all, you know, lie down is a  Yeah. If you like me like this. Not like. Yeah, yeah. I feel something very hot. And then I understand that I'm r really that sweat. That's when it's happened to me. I understand that I'm going to d that I am not. It's not possible to get a life in this situation and I'm starting to cry for myse And the commander is, you know, next to me. But we have enough after I'm, you know, stop crying and put my hands at my head. He he took all the time in the phone in Arabic today. I know that he talk with the police and ask for surrender. And because I was calling to the they know that there is a woman is the name of something. So they told him, go with this man outside, put your clothes out. And take 4 minutes. He put out of both of us was naked, and he's going with me slowly to the police and he's. How does he go with you? How is he? He he hugged me in the back like Okay. It's like a like a your shield. I'm a shield. Yeah. Human shield And he goes me to metal from the but it's taken us for 4 minutes. They are everybody's. And I'm telling don't you don't shoot because this is the Hamas do tha and do they see him? Then they see him and they they told him that they will, if we will, going to do this. They will show them. But they didn't and they didn't  Yeah, they you'll never know why Yeah, because I know no one. They stayed alive and then we are two metal from t and 20 policemen from Israel. He pushed me a little bit. I'm running to the police he got and I'm safe. But I understand that my boyfrie and the others are still there is for the terrorists because just once around 5:00 the police don't understand the big they had no idea it 5:00 in the afternoon. They have no idea already. They think that I am maybe you k I don't understand. I'm telling them no the 40 they tell me look at us, we are  I'm telling there are more from  and they don't believe me. So did you know that the that the terrorists had shot. I mean I didn't know in this, in this time I have a hope that Al still aliv You for three days. Yeah, for a  We are. Yeah. We helped if he wa But then Tuesday, three days after the attack, the and they have in the last month and that' And he was dead and everybody wa I think it's a dream that maybe I'm going to wake up. I don't understand it. Yes. You know, some of them say, yeah, I know the I know the information, but I don't feel the information I know is there, but I. I think it's okay. You can't feel yet, do you? I do You don't have the. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes they have them emotion but most of the time I live in a But I know I mean, I agree it's  because it's weird. For me, that is he's gun he was younger than me. I'm 44 and these 37. So it's weird to me that you want to get my age toda You understand he'll never be 44 Yeah. And never be 40. It's very strange. So many stories. Horrific stories. Right. Wow. That closet door. How did they not kill you. I so I think I have an answer. Also in the Hamas there are a lot kind of people, they are radical people and they you know, and moderate. Yeah. And I think and I understand after the situation that the com that surrounded that he can see the silence is know that radical. Exactly. And there are I know after the police told me that there are two commando ther that are very radical that that  nobody is getting out. We are going back to us, to Gaza with everybody lives their exist I mean, because some of them are most of them are children, twent They are afraid to die and they want to get to Gaza wit You could tell that they they were also afraid. Yeah. Yea Now, humans they are humans. They are fed. Yes. I mean, what and they said you can't necessar even feel sometimes. You have children. Yeah. Thank God for that. I lost when I was in the closet because you need to understand we are in one hour. That's right. It was this was the mosque. And space is time. Yeah, we were like this, holding us hands, and we are very sweat because it was hot in the closet and we are holding our hands. And then I decide to write my children a, you know, last word. And I may well tell my girls I l And probably going to die. So be safe. Be careful. Stay. Swee It's very important for me that my three children will stay And now when you're with your your youngest child, your son. we we're talking with children of the same age. That he wrote you and you and kn I know. My son told him that he wants to take me along with that and sister to th and he wants to give us somethin and he wants two sentences. I hope he will be happy. And please don't be sad anymore. I love you alone. You know, alone. And the Italian thank you that you tell me that. And I will try to be more happy like I used to be.
</doc>