<video_id>0pD3Ww6P8jc</video_id>
<video_title>Hear what college students think about Biden amid Israel-Hamas war</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hear what college students think about Biden amid Israel-Hamas war.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231121</publish_date>

<doc>
81. Today, he made a few jokes about his age during the annual Thanksgiving turkey. Pardon? And late tonight, this picture was posted on the president's Instagram account. It's a birthday cake ablaze with candles, the comment reads. Thanks for the birthday well-wishes today, everyone. Turns out on your 146th birthday. You run out of space for candles. The White House tonight leaning into what is considered one of Biden's biggest political liabilities his age. Right now, he is showing poorly in the polls, particularly among younger voters. They backed him in 2020 by about 20 points. Polls now show that support collapsing. A new one from NBC shows the former president, the former president Donald Trump, leading President Biden 46 to 42% among 18 to 34 year olds. What's more, 70% of young voters disapprove of Biden's handling of the Israel-Hamas war. The White House press secretary was asked about that disapproval today by our MJ Lee. This is what she said. But what I'll be very clear about is we going to not going to govern by polls here. We're going to our poll numbers. We're going to focus on delivering for the American people. That's going to be our focus on the war. And young voters are the focus of John King's latest installment of his series for 360 All Over the Map. The series tracks the presidential campaign through the eyes and experiences of voters who live in key battleground states. Tonight, Michigan and John King joins me here now. So, John, what did you find out this time? Look, imagine you're back in college, you're 18 or 19, you're 20. 81. Seems pretty old. And it's not just the number. They think he's just far away from them on the issues. They think he doesn't understand their issues, even though he's tried to do some things on college debt, they think they don't get it. So age was an issue anyway with this bedrock piece of the Biden coalition. And now, John, when you go to campus, you see the protests about the Israel-Hamas war on both sides. People raise questions about how the president's handling it. Midterms are done. Final's just ahead. There is a rhythm to life on campus. And this fall, a raw divide. I am an Israeli, Jewish, Israeli American. My segment is a sophomore at Wayne State in Michigan, studying social work, chatting with friends here at the Jewish campus organization Hillel or Hillel as a police officer down the hall. That's not normal. It is now. Siegman traveled to Washington last week to join thousands in support of Israel. Now back on a campus divided, the divisions are very clear. The tension on campus is very high. Wayne State spans 200 acres in downtown Detroit. Ibrahim Ghezzal among the 24,000 students. I'm Muslim. I'm American. I'm Palestinian. Ghezzal calls anti-Semitism horrible and disgusting. Do you feel the flip side of it, or is there more of Islamophobia? More Islamophobia? And people just say. I think it's I think it's disgusting that standing up for children dying and women dying and civilian infrastructure being destroyed is being compared to supporting Hamas. I mean, holding up a Palestinian flag does not support Hamas. Hamas has their own flag. Nobody's carrying their flag. This coffee shop is in Dearborn, where about half of the residents are of Arab ancestry. Jocelyne, his friends say a president they supported in 2020 is now greenlighting an Israeli response they see as indiscriminate. And I don't think our country should fund that type of reaction. You feel this way To an extent, yes. I feel as though President Biden doesn't value my life as a muslim American as much as he values other lives. Young voters were a giant part of the Biden 2020 Coalition, and this urban campus tilts deep blue. If it's Biden Trump next November, you would. I'd go Biden. Some are. Malkin is just 18, a theater major, an E-sports enthusiast, and an LGBTQ voter who wishes President Biden would yield to someone younger. I think that weird generational gap is something that is very, very hard for young people. So when there's certain things that we want to be heard as young people with not only the conflict out with Israeli and Palestine people, but we also have like student loan forgiveness and all of these different financial problems that aren't being handled when there are very much capable of being handled. Malkin isn't ruling out voting third party, but feels like a weird kind of throwaway vote. Joseph Fisher used to think that way, but right now he favors a socialist party. In 2020, Fisher was just 17, but he helped the ACLU register voters back home in Georgia. So you helped Joe Biden get elected? I did, yes. What about 2024? I will not vote for Joe Biden. Not this time. This is Ann Arbor, the University of Michigan students writing the names of Palestinians killed in Gaza. One of our demands that we're pressuring Adnan for right now is complete divestment from the state of Israel. You say genocide? Yes. The prime minister of Israel or the president of United States would say response to terrorism. Absolutely. It's and it's absolutely essential that we call it for what it is a genocide and also say that it doesn't start on October 17th. It started in 1948 with the creation of the Saudi colonial state of Israel. Some Jewish students say talk like that. Beliefs like that are stoking an alarming rise in anti-Semitism. I wish it wasn't like this, but this is what we live right now. 50,000 students here in Ann Arbor and interest in the college Democrats is up. We've had 50, 40, 30 consistently for meetings. And in the past it has been closer to maybe ten, 15, 20 seniors and co-presidents of the College Democrats, Anoushka Jala, Saki and Jade Gray helped generate big turnout here in 2020 and again in 2022. They have weekly meetings now to plan 2024. Should we have somebody younger? Does that come up much? It comes up. And I think that that's a you know, it's a real point to make. It's a real conversation to be had. The immediate challenge, though, is seeing students who agree on things like abortion rights and defending democracy at odds over the Israel-Hamas crisis and President Biden's response. You know, Mr. President, I've seen you take key humanitarian steps, but I think the next step is a cease fire and I think that that would go a long way with voters. I don't know what's happened next week or next month, but if the election were tomorrow, do you think that it is more likely some of your members would sit out or look for another option, third party, because they're mad at the president about this? Some of them, yes. They have shared with us that maybe this is making me reconsider. Is it fair to say you're glad the election is not tomorrow? Yes, sir. John, we saw in the latest poll where former President Donald Trump is now ahead of President Biden with younger voters. Where does that fit with the data you're seeing? We didn't see John either at Wayne State, which is a very remember in downtown Detroit, a blue campus or even at Ann Arbor, a rush to Trump. But you do see a lot of hesitation about the president. So let me just bring up those numbers as we go through. And you see the Michigan map here from 2020. Here's that new national poll you talked about. One key distinction I want to make. NBC polled voters ages 18 to 34 in the exit polls. It's 18 to 29. We do know as voters start to get older, they're more likely they're not rushing to the Republicans, but they're more likely so. But still, if you look at this and then if you go back and look nationally at 2016 versus 2020, President Trump got 36% of 18 to 29. He got 36% again in 2020, both in 2016 and 20. President getting 36. So if he's above 40, that's a big gain for President Trump. So what is the issue? Look at President Biden. He got 60% in 2022, 55% for Hillary Clinton. It was a key And, John, when you asked voters on campus, number one, the age they see the president, they don't they don't see him enough. And so they think, wow, he doesn't understand us. He doesn't get us. Those college Democrats presence. They were trying to deal with that issue, saying you're not just voting for the president, you're voting for who he puts on the Supreme Court. You're voting for abortion rights. You're voting to protect democracy. They were just trying to start that conversation on campus. And then October 7th happened. And you see this divide on campus where the Jewish students say they feel afraid and the progressive students saying the president should call for a cease fire. They say if he doesn't, they might not vote at all or they might go third party. And if you look how close Michigan is, that would be a problem. And again, the Biden reelect campaign certainly knows all this. It'll be interesting to see how they choose to address it over the coming weeks and months. John King, great to have you. Thank you.
</doc>