<video_id>GFYRmADgT1Q</video_id>
<video_title>Hear what Bernie Sanders thinks about Israel's response to Hamas attack</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hear what Bernie Sanders thinks about Israel's response to Hamas attack.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231105</publish_date>

<doc>
Across the U.S. this weekend, large crowds of pro-Palestinian protesters took to city streets to call for a cease fire. And on Capitol Hill Friday, dozens of activists were arrested after entering the offices of several senators. One of those senators is here with me now, independent Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Senator, thank you so much for joining me this morning. Four weeks ago, more than 1400 Israelis, mostly civilians, were slaughtered in their homes and at a festival. You've been critical of Israel's response recently. How do you think Israel should be responding? Well, this is what you got. So I think clear to most people what combusted. And Hamas is an awful terrorist organization is they slaughtered 1400 people in cold blood. Israel has a right to defend itself. But what Israel does not, in my view, have a right to do is to kill thousands and thousands of innocent men, women and children who had nothing to do with that attack. So the immediate concern for my mind is that we have got to stop the bombing. Now, you had six had over 600,000 people pushed out of their homes. Where are they going? You're saying in the United Nations facilities overcrowded, the sound of water, the sound of food, the sound of medicine, not enough fuel. You've got a humanitarian disaster that has to be dealt with right now. So, Senator. The the issue. I'm sorry, Go ahead. No, please go. Ahead, Don. Okay. So what you're saying about what you're saying about the lack of food and water and so forth, I think that most people in the West, certainly the U.S. believes that that is because Hamas is hoarding it. And the other question is, how does Israel it is. Not just. How does Israel destroy Hamas. With that? Hamas is burning it. They are. It's more than that. That's what Israeli's policy has been. Okay. So combination of fact. Let's get to the other let's get to the other point that you made, which is really the key one, which is innocent civilians dying. And they are how should his Israel destroy Hamas post attack on these innocent civilians in Israel without hurting killing innocent men, women and children when a Hamas is hiding behind them and putting them in danger? How does that work? Well, that is exactly the right question to be asked, the military experts, of which I am not one. But clearly, yes, they have Israel's right to defend itself. Hamas has sworn that's what its goal is. It's to destroy Israel. They've got to deal with that. But there's got to be a better way than killing thousands of men, women and children. So, once again, the immediate concern is you've got to have a pause in the bombing. You've got to take care of the immediate disaster. Israel has got to change your charging. Let me just say this. The United States of America provides $3.8 billion every year to Israel. We have a right. Israel can do what they want. They're an independent country. But we have a right to say sorry. You need a new military strategy. Go after Hamas. But that means but do not kill innocent men, women and children. You mentioned money. There is going to be a measure before you relatively soon for the House passed 14 more than $14 billion. And there is going to be at least some version of that in the Senate. Will you support that? Or were you put conditions on? Well, we'll do it. The bill will see what the bill looks like. But I think it's terribly important that as we debate that the Saudis will you want this money, you've got to change your military strategy. The other point is we have to give hope to the Palestinian people. They are living. They were living before October 17, the disastrous situation in Gaza at 75%. Youth unemployment, massive poverty. And right now in Israel, you're having the Netanyahu government, an extreme right wing government with racist. The board trying to make it impossible for a two state solution in the West Bank. They're killing settlers there. So what we need is the world to come together to give hope to the Palestinians. We need a two state solution, and we need to have many of the very wealthy countries in the region, the United Arab Republic, Saudi Arabia, Qatar. They are extraordinarily wealthy. The United States work for the community in order to provide some hope and decency of freedom to the Palestinian people, which Hamas will have to do. I just you're right about that. They have a lot of money and they, to this point, have not been really willing to use that money in that region to help their fellow Arabs. I want to just clarify one thing, Senator, if I might. You support a humanitarian pause in Gaza as some of your fellow progressives say that there should be a full on cease fire, which would require an agreement on both sides to halt the fighting. Do you support a cease fire? And if not, why not? Well, I don't know how you can have a cease fire permanent cease fire with an organization like Hamas, which is dedicated to turmoil and chaos and destroying the state of Israel. And I think what the Arab countries in the region understand that Hamas has got to go. So what we need right now, the immediate task right now is to end the bombing, to end the horrific humanitarian disaster that the build go forward with the entire world for a two tier two state solution to the crisis to give the Palestinian people hope. Senator Democratic Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib released a video on Friday. I want you to watch part of it. Mr. President, the American people are not with you on this one. We will remember in 2024 that last screen said Joe Biden supported the genocide of the Palestinian people. I know you know the definition of genocide. It is defined as a crime committed with intent to destroy a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. Do you think that's what Israel is doing here? What's going on right now is a horror show. We don't have to quibble about words. Thousands of men, women and children are being killed. It has got to end right now. And one of the things that concerns me, Donna, is there's not been enough talk about the right wing Republicans are doing right. They don't want any aid to go to the Palestinians. Somebody should be talking about that. Somebody should be talking about how Trump wants to expel Palestinians from this country. So it's you know, you can disagree with Joe Biden, but on his worst day, it'll be 100 times better where Trump and the right wing. So you think that Rashida Tlaib should save her ire for for Trump and the right way and not for the Democrat. Rashida is no friend of mine. Her family comes from Palestine. I think she has been shaken, as all of us are about. What goes on is going on right there, right now. Yeah, we have to address that humanitarian crisis. But if anyone thinks that Trump is going to be better than Biden on this issue or any other issue for that matter, I think they are sorely mistaken. And I understand that. I also understand and I know, you know, that words matter. And I want to ask about what she said. Look, look, we're not words matter, but what matters more down to Israel have a horrible humanitarian disaster You call it whatever you want to call it. It has to be dealt with. Women and children cannot be bombed with £2,000 bombs. And we need the entire. When she says from the river to the sea, when she says from the river to the sea, which the ADL says is anti-Semitic, she says it's aspirational, but the ADL says it is anti-Semitic. Do you want her to stop using terms like that when others and others. Are going down? You know what I want to know else this is what President Obama just said the other day, I think quite correctly. And we all got to deal with this enormously complex issue and slogans like the River to the Sea. If the if that means the destruction of Israel, that's not going to work. People are saying Israel, right. A wrong way for you all the way. That's not going to work. This is a horrendously complex that you've got a right wing government which is racist and the people, by the way, the good news is last poll I saw, only 18% of the people of Israel want Netanyahu to stay in office. I hope they get rid of him. I hope they put in a government which understands the severity of the crisis and can help us move toward a two tier state. Senator, on the other hand, in terms of Hamas, you got a terrorist organization that cannot be trusted for a minute. This is, as President Obama said, a very complex issue. Senator, real quick and you're you're really alluding to this in your in your answers and our discussion here. You really are in a unique position, maybe even a difficult one, because you're a leading progressive voice in American politics and you're also Jewish and you have family who died in the Holocaust. How difficult is this for you? This is like this is nothing to do with me, Don. What this is, is as a nation, we are living now, in my view, for a more difficult moment than we have lived in my lifetime. You know, people are worried about they've had the pandemic, worried about climate change, worried about the attacks on democracy. Our health care system is is collapsing. And we have artificial information which is going to, you know, make radical changes to the economy. You've got a crime all over this country. People are worried. The concern all that I am begging people is understand slogans are not going to do it. Social media is not going to do it. We need a serious discussion of how the hell we got out of this difficult situation. Maintain democracy, bring peace to the world, and it ain't easy. But slogans are not going to do it on any side. Senator, thank you so much for your time I really appreciate it. Thank you, Don.
</doc>