<video_id>D7eNeon9vKU</video_id>
<video_title>Hear what VP Harris says she told Israel's Netanyahu</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hear what VP Harris says she told Israel's Netanyahu.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240725</publish_date>

<doc>
I told him that I will always en that Israel is able to defend it including from Iran and Iran bac militias such as Hamas and Hezbo From when I was a young girl collecting funds to plant trees for Israel. To my time in the United States  and now at the white House. I have had an unwavering commitm to the existence of the State of to its security, and to the people of Israel. I've said it many times, but it bears repeating. Israel has a right to defend its and how it does so matters. Hamas is a brutal terrorist orga On October 7th, Hamas triggered  when it massacred 1200 innocent  including 44 Americans. Hamas has committed horrific acts of sexual violence and took 250 hostages. There are American citizens who remain captive in Gaza. Soggy taco hen Hirsch Goldberg, Poland. Edan Alexander, Keith Siegel, Omar Neutra and the remains of American citi Judy Weinstein, God, a Guy and I hen are still being held in Gaza I have met with the families of these American hostages multiple times now, and I've told them each time they are not alone, and I stand with them. And President Biden and I are working every da to bring them home. I also expressed with the Prime  my serious concern about the scale of human suffering in Gaza, including the death of far too many innocent civilians. And I made clear my serious conc about the dire humanitarian situation there. With over 2 million people facin high levels of food insecurity and half a million people facing catastrophic levels of ac food insecurity. What has happened in Gaza over the past nine months is devastating. The images of dead children and desperate, hungry people fleeing for safety, sometimes di for the second, third or fourth  We cannot look away in the face of these tragedies. We cannot allow ourselves to become numb to the suffering. And I will not be silent. Thanks to the leadership of our president, Joe Biden, there is a deal on the table for a ceasefire and a hostage de And it is important that we reca what the deal involves. The first phase of the deal would bring about a full ceasefi including a withdrawal of the Israeli military from population centers in Gaza. In the second phase, the Israeli with withdraw from Gaza entirely and it would lead to a permanent to the hostilities. It is time for this war to end and to end in a way where Israel is secure. All the hostages are released. The suffering of Palestinians in Gaza ends, and the Palestinian people can exercise their right to free dignity and self-determination. There has been hopeful movement in the talks to secure an agreement on this d And as I just told Prime Minister Netanyahu, it is time to get this deal done So to everyone who has been calling for a ceasefire and to everyone who yearns for p I see you and I hear you. Let's get the deal done so we can get a ceasefire to end Let's bring the hostages home and let's provide much needed re the Palestinian people. And ultimately, I remain committed to a path forward that can lead to a two state sol And I know right now it is hard to conceive of that prospect. But a two state solution is the  that ensures Israel remains a se Jewish and democratic state, and one that ensures Palestinians can finally realize the freedom, security and prospe that they rightly deserve. And I will close with this. Then. It is important for the American people to remem the war in Gaza is not a binary  However, too often the conversation is binary when the reality is anything but So I ask my fellow Americans to help encourage efforts to acknowledge the complexity, the nuance, and the history of the region. Let us all condemn terrorism and violence. Let us all do what we can to pre the suffering of innocent civili and let us condemn antisemitism, Islamophobia, and hate of any ki and let us work to unite our cou I thank you for that, Vice presi Madam Vice President, after after your meeting, are you convinced that the Prime Minister would like a fire deal? All right. There you heard Vice President Harris as well as a presidential candid Harris, as of this week. talking after meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, saying but we cannot allow ourselves to be numb to the suffering in G She said it is time for the war  And she conveyed that to Benjamin Netanyahu as well. Let's bring in Kayla Telsey from the white House. Kayla, some strong words there from the vice president after her meeting. And it obviously is coming at an interesting political moment for her as well Pam, it's been the clearest distillation y that we've seen of Vice Presiden Harris's own beliefs and views on this situation. And I think there's one line in particular that sums it up best, and that is toward the top. When she said She's speaking to those who want to se defend itself and want this war to end, and also those who want to seek  And she says in no uncertain ter I hear you, and I see you to those on all si of this argument and this debate that has inflamed divisions in this country as well as around the world, these are the most forceful word and the perhaps the clearest position that's been laid out on this sit from this administration so far, and certainly from the vice president herself. And it's worth noting that because in listening to some of her comments up until this point, aides of hers, administration official and those who know her very well have noted that substantively, she's not differe from President Biden on this top But tonally, rhetorically, she is that she has a tendency to speak more forcefully on this that at times has raised eyebrows inside the white House. But then when you look at the substance of the remarks, they're actually not that differ She is now at a crossroads where she has to decide what her nuance is on this issue whether she wants to break from Biden's position or whether she wants to stay the with what the administration has laid out. Fulsomely so far. This appearance tonight appears to be her saying, this is where I'm going to be on this matter, that Israel has a right to defen and how it does so matters, and that for people on all sides of this debate that she hears them and she sees Pam. All right. Kayla, thank you And for more reaction to Vice President Harris's comments, I want to bring in Democratic Congressman Jason Crow, Colorado. First off, what is your reaction What we just heard from Harris. Well, I agree with your colleagu that the the line that we support Israel, but how it does so matter. that is a key element to this, that we can both stand with Isra and help it defend itself, but it has to do so consistent with its values at the level of civilian casualties has been unacceptable and untenable. And the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza is also not aligned with our values and our interest And then finally, her calling on the American people to embrace the complexity of the situation and the history here is also really important. You know, we have to be able to have that confidence, that confidence to have that conversation. What's this, a stronger stance on Palestinian suffering  than we have heard from President Biden in almost ten months of this war In your view? Now, I wouldn't compare it to President Biden. President Biden has handled this in a very complicated and a very strong way. but he's clearly articulating her views on this and saying that we need to have a conversat going forward about the complexi Right. Calling on the release of the ho saying that we have to find a path forward to peace. This conflict has evolved and has evolved from day one to  you know, 270 now, at this point we have to make sure that we're  in our conversation along the li Earlier this week, her campaign  that was still defining her stance over the the you heard Harris say how Israel prosecutes this war matters. You just talked about that. Does that signal to you that she you know, substantially change h toward Israel compared to Biden, using more le against Netanyahu's government, especially considering she's now a presidential candida I think what it means is that she is going to continue to adap as the circumstances change. What I learned in war, I served as an Army Ranger in Ir and Afghanistan is that day one is different from day 90 and and different from day 180. Wars and conditions change. And as a leader, you have to have the ability to be able to adapt to those changing conditions. So she, very clearly, conveyed a desire to actually understand what's going on and to adapt as necessary going  and to embrace, again that complexity of the situation that we can hold several truths at the same time that one of these truths is we will stand by and defend the state of Israel. At the same time, it has to do so consistent with our interests and our value in the values of the American pe
</doc>