<video_id>gTgMZmSdkHY</video_id>
<video_title>Hear what the Israeli ambassador to the US says about plans for Gaza after war</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Hear what the Israeli ambassador to the US says about plans for Gaza after war.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231015</publish_date>

<doc>
Joining me now in studio is Israeli ambassador to the United States, Michael Herzog. Before I start, of course, I want to offer my deepest condolences to the Israeli people about what happened eight days ago. Just a horrific, horrific attack, a terrorist attack. I think I speak for for all of my viewers and everybody at CNN when I say our hearts are just broken by what happened. Thank you very much. I really appreciate. The the this ground incursion that we expect in the next. Do we? Do we. Can you give me any sort of sense of timing? Let's next week. I know you have 300,000 reservists on the border. And is it an operation to rid Hamas of its military capabilities, its terrorist capabilities, or is it an operation to destroy Hamas completely? So, as you noted, Israel was attacked. Hamas waged war on Israel and they carried out one of the worst terror attacks in world history, if not the worst. And we have no choice but to strike back. And we are determined to destroy the Hamas war machine so that they cannot threaten us again. We do not want to be in that game where every few years they launch war against us or provoke us. That's over. to destroy the war machine. We are preparing a ground operation. I'm not going to go into details and timetables and all that, but we are at war and we're going to fight that war. And what is the plan for after you accomplish the objective? What does the end state after the operation look like? Will Israel reoccupying the Gaza Strip? Will any Palestinians who fled Gaza be allowed back in? So we have no desire to occupy or re-occupy Gaza. We have no desire to rule over the lives of over 2 million Palestinians and certainly want people to go back to their homes or talking about innocent civilians. And we are doing everything we can to keep them out of harm's way. Well, Hamas is doing everything it can to keep them in harm's way. That's a situation we are at. I think talking about the day after is a bit premature because crushing the Hamas war machine will require time. And the question you raise are valid. And I think we will have to enter discussions with our partners, with the international community about the day after. Haaretz editorial this week said, quote, Israel's most urgent task is to bring back the Israelis held by Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip. And they point out that your finance minister, Bezalel Smotrich, reportedly argued in a in a cabinet meeting for Israel to, quote, strike Hamas brutally and not take the issue of the captives into account too much. And what Haaretz is arguing is, why not? Why isn't the why aren't the captives why aren't the kidnaping victims the number one priority? Well, certainly the issue of the kidnaped Israelis and others is is very much it's high on our agenda. We are well aware that we're still in the process of forming a picture, understanding how many people are there, what is their condition, what is their identity. And certainly this is a consideration. I don't want to comment about statements by this or that politician. All we say is that Hamas perpetrated a war crime and crimes against humanity and taking hostages and that we hold them accountable to any harm that comes to any of the hostages. Hamas is claiming that Israeli airstrikes have killed at least 13 of the hostages in Gaza. Do you have any idea if that's true? I don't know. I would be very careful about what they say. There's a lot of misinformation and propaganda there. And so I would be very careful and take I would take what they say with a grain of salt. You said a week ago it was premature to discuss any deals for exchanging hostages. Has that changed? Is there any discussion about any any prisoner swaps, hostage swaps? We're not in that phase. And as I said, we're in the middle of war and we still have to know how many hostages there are and what is their condition. So you obviously distinguish between Hamas and the 2.3 million Palestinians, many of whom are prisoners of Hamas in Gaza. Israel has warned the 1.1 million in northern Gaza to evacuate. And and the U.S. officials, the U.S. has even said that's a tall order. The U.N. has said it's impossible to get them all out. What's the latest on these humanitarian corridors and letting the innocent victims of of Hamas in many ways get out? So I'm glad you asked the question. Our enemy is Hamas. It's not the Palestinian people. It's not the innocent civilians. Many of them are dying because of Israeli bombardment. They are used by Hamas as human shields. That's why we call on them to leave their homes, because as we intense intensify the war against Hamas and Hamas war machine, we don't want to harm any civilians. And we ask them to move to the south of Gaza from us. In contrast, asking them to stay is forcing them to stay. Right there, setting a blockade. They are conscious, they confiscating car keys and so on. We see all that. They want to use them as human shields.
</doc>