
<doc>
While it's Labor Day weekend, the traditional kickoff to the home stretch of the presidential campaign. Here with me now is the Democratic Senate candidate from California, Congressman Adam Schiff. I want to talk to you about the campaign in one minute. But first, you are in Oakland, California right now. That is where the Goldberg poll and family is originally from. And I want to get your reaction to the murder of Israeli American hostage Hirsh Goldberg. Poland and five others. Well, when I heard the news last night, I felt sick. I am just absolutely heartbroken. for Hirsch's family, for the families of these other hostages that were butchered by these Hamas terrorists. And, it just, is hard to wrap your head around. I think we all came to know, Hirsch, through his family, and, and it's just it's just devastating. and these, sons of bitches who did this, ought to be hunted down and brought to justice, no matter how long that takes. I hope and pray. I think, as we all do, that there's a negotiated end to this war. And soon, and that not another, innocent person loses their life. and I just can't imagine how his family must feel right now. I mean, you just heard the new tras, whose son, Omar, is also in captivity called not just on Prime Minister Netanyahu, but President Biden multiple times to do more to get, these hostages, particularly Americans, home. I mean, I asked her about a prayer that she says every day, and she she's clearly done with prayers. She's frustrated, understandably. I'm hearing anecdotally for people from people saying, this is the United States of America and the fact that the American president and American administration can't get American citizens held in these conditions back is very frustrating. And a little bit, they're flabbergasted by it. How can the Biden administration answer those frustrations right now? Well, first of all, I think the parents of the hostages are doing exactly what they should be doing, exactly what I would be doing, in their shoes. as difficult as it is to imagine the horror of standing where they're standing, and that is, pleading, advocating, doing everything possible to get Israeli government to agree to, an end to the war that that releases their family members and also, call upon the president and vice president to do everything they can. And I think they are. I think President Biden and Vice President Harris are turning over every stone in their efforts to secure the release of the hostages and protect the lives of the hostages and achieve a ceasefire. I don't think they go a waking moment without focusing on this, where, you know, we're not putting boots on the ground, in these tunnels under Gaza. So it is a very difficult, situation in terms of our own ability to rescue these hostages. But I really, sincerely believe the administration is doing everything possible. and, and is committed, not only to an end to the war in which the threat from Hamas is eliminated, in which we we are on a path at some point and I pray soon to a regional, and two state solution that, achieves a lasting peace in the region. But I really believe they're doing all they possibly can. Congressman, I want to turn back, domestically to the presidential race, which is 65 days away. Election day is, I want you to listen to how Vice President Harris answered my question this week about a key issue in the campaign. In 2019, you said, quote, there is no question I'm in favor of banning fracking. Fracking, as you know, is a pretty big issue, particularly in your must win state of Pennsylvania. Do you still want to ban fracking? No, and I made that clear on the debate stage in 2020 that I would not ban fracking as vice president. I did not ban fracking as president. I will not ban fracking. You're a co-sponsor of a House bill right now that would ban fracking. Are you disappointed that she supports it now? well, look, you know, I favor banning fracking. And I strongly believe that, the the pathway to, attacking climate change is to, wean ourselves off of fossil fuels. but, look, I'm not the vice president United States. And I do think that when you are representing the whole country, you have a different perspective. as the vice president pointed out, her values, though, have remained consistent. And that is she is a champion of, moving ourselves in the renewable energy direction. her role in passing the Inflation Reduction Act, the most aggressive attack on climate change in our history, I think, speaks for itself. But, but, look, let's, let's compare, a situation where, someone changed their position four years ago to Donald Trump, who's changed his position four times on abortion in the last 48 hours. that, to me, is, you know, a much more significant question, particularly as when you're talking about abortion, and you're talking about a, right. And freedom of the American people to be so pandering, wishy washy, flip flopping, you know, so, disrespect for the rights and freedoms of millions of American women, and do all that in a single day. that's the contrast here. and what's more, Dana, that's a values issue. That's a values issue. when on something like the right to an abortion, you flip flop, every 15 minutes, that shows essentially he has no values. Congressman, special counsel Jack Smith filed a new indictment against Donald Trump this week for election interference, even after the Supreme Court ruling on immunity. And it comes as two pro-Trump organizations are slated to hold a January 6th awards gala at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster to pay tribute to all six defendants. Now, Trump has been invited to speak. Organizers say he hasn't ruled it out. What's your response to the fact that he's, whether he goes or not, that he's allowing his property to be used for this event? the Justice Department is exactly right to be refiling these charges, after that, just absurdly dangerous Supreme Court decision, attempted to give immunity to a president to commit crimes while they were in office. so he's right to refile these charges. but for, the president to allow, you know, this event to go forward, celebrating these people who beat who gas to bear sprayed, who. we're responsible for the deaths of police officers who essentially try to interfere with the, peaceful transfer of power the first time in our history, shows you that for Donald Trump, he could, you know, give a damn about the country, about the Constitution, about the oath of office. It's only about him. And to glorify these people. also is a green light to further violence. Should he lose the upcoming election? so just another dangerous disrespect. Full, acquiescence in lawlessness by Donald Trump and his enablers. Congressman Adam Schiff, candidate for Senate in the great state of California. Thank you so much for being here this morning. Thanks, Dana.
</doc>