
<doc>
We have a powerful interview to share with you now. I first spoke with Gully Dunne when I was in Israel last November. Her 18 year old daughter, Mayan, was murdered by Hamas on October 7th in front of her family. Hamas then held the dozens at gunpoint on the floor of their kitchen for hours, live streaming the whole thing on Facebook. The ordeal ended with Hamas kidnaping gullies. Husband Zaki Gali and I spoke again in northern Israel this week. We talked at length about the pain she's endured. Her plea for officials to reach a hostage deal, and her hope that she will see her husband alive again. Thank you very much for talking to us. It's been almost a year since we last had this conversation. First of all, how are you doing? Good question. in my worst nightmares, I wouldn't believe that we are meeting in this situation where nothing changed. Actually. Charlie's feeling the Hamas. Charlie Dunne, your husband? Yeah. 50 years old. He was kidnaped by Hamas. And your daughter? My young, 18 years old. She was murdered that day. Yeah. And you've been living with that? Both of those enormous, enormous tragedies all this time? Yes. It's been 313 days of hell. we are out of breath. Just like them in captivity and being hostage by by Hamas, which are terrorists and murderers. He was kidnaped and taken to Gaza. What's the latest you've heard about his condition? The latest was, it's, end of November, when, the release of, the hostages last release of hostages from Gaza. I had an eyewitness say that she was with him for for a few for a day or two, and she talked to him, and he was really emotionally down, and, thinking about my son and what happened, and, that he misses. I don't know if he knows if we are okay. And it was a really long time ago that that day that she told me that she saw him. It's unimaginable that we are sitting right now after this time, and nothing changed. He's not back. They're not back. They're not all back. It's. It's unthinkable. It's unthinkable and unbearable. And we live in this. In this, In this audacity. Every day, every hour, thinking about our loved ones in in hostage conditions. Do you have any hope that these negotiations, which are taking place and are about to resume, will result in a ceasefire and be the release of the hostages, including your husband? Most definitely. Yes. Yes. the only way that Charlie and 114 other hostages can come back. Some alive, some dead for a proper burial, is the only way is in in, in a deal. The only way is in a deal. You cannot make. and and and army and, you know, a mission to to save them all. You cannot do that. Well, further complicating this whole situation now is the possibility that Iran might attack Israel. Yes. And that could happen within days. Yes. And presumably that would undermine whatever negotiations might be taking place for a cease fire and a hostage release. Yes, I know, it's like, it's it's I'm trying not to be. I'm trying to filter the ongoing threats from all over and keep my eye on the hostages and on sacking my husband, my loved one, my better half. the threat is here, and I think it's been ongoing for, few months. It's not a new thing. I think they need to close this deal. So all the, all the, the Middle East can be relaxed from this situation because the situation is is burning. And if the Middle East will become a battle zone, it won't be a third World War. I don't see it. It will take all the allies into the situation. It's horrific. What do you miss most about your husband? I miss his voice. And, I miss his hugs. And I miss the, the time that we have together. And I miss him. joking with the kids and laughing. And making dinner with him and watching a movie. Taking a walk. I miss every little thing. It's been too long. It's unbearable. We have no air anymore. They have to come back. It's part of us. My son. She was killed. Murdered that day? Yes. You miss her? Obviously. Every day too. Oh, just something. I feel is something that, is. I cannot grieve about my. Because I'm in an ongoing war to save my husband. I didn't went to see her grave. I could, and it's going to be a year, and I need to go and see her, and I can't. I need to be here and we need to do it together. He needs to see her grave. He needs to grieve with me. We need to hold each other through this. And. And as all of us know, October 7th. It's almost. The year was the worst day of Jews being murdered since the Holocaust. Yes. It's interesting that you are saying, because today I thought that I think the mark, the horrific marks of Jewish is the Holocaust and the 7th of October. You're so right. This is I think it will be a stain in Israeli history. And it will be worse if the hostages will not come back. Come back and I, I will not I will not allow them to sacrifice my husband for the sake of war. How are your other children dealing with all this now? Our young kids, the very young Sean is, 16. She turned 16 while, this year has passed. Yael is, 12, and she is ten. there are some good days and some bad days. we are all talking about my. And all the time. they have some times that they are breaking down and crying and missing their sister and. Yeah. And a few days ago, Sean came to my room crying in the middle of the night and said, I want my daddy, I want daddy. I miss my girl and I want that he. And it's. And you need to. And you need to hug her. And just what can I say to her? What can I say to her? What answer is there? I can't bring her. Her dad. I wish I could. I would have in any means. I need the government and everybody that are in the doing of this deal to bring home alive. Like he was taken. He was taken a line. He needs to come back alive. I hope he does. I hope he comes back soon. And when he does, I hope to come and meet him. I promise you that when he comes back, we'll do a recap. Good. I'd like to talk to him, and I'm keeping the hope. That's what we said the last time. We need to know. And we are 330 days after. Yeah, it's a long time. It's a long time. Wolf, we need to breathe again. And to breathe. We need them back. All of them back. Let's hope the next time we meet. Thank you. Sorry is back. Oh, it's going to be amazing. I have this picture that is coming back, and I'm meeting in the hospital with the kids running toward him and Jane running toward him. And it's going to be a strong reunion. And, we need this circle to be closed. And so. But that was, Thank you, thank you, thank you. As we say. Let's hope, let's hope. Bring them back. Please. Please, please.
</doc>