<video_id>xTHV_9KHs8Q</video_id>
<video_title>How Hamas won and kept control in Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\How Hamas won and kept control in Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231010</publish_date>

<doc>
Slick propaganda, a blatant threat and published last year. Hamas gunmen training a motorized paragliders. They also showed meticulous planning for fighting in built up areas. All an historic failure of Israeli intelligence. Hamas videos of the start of their assaults from Gaza were published within hours of its launch. Once a branch of the Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas, a Sunni movement, won Palestinian elections in 2006 on a platform of social reform and resistance to Israel. Riven by corruption and incompetence, rivals Fatah launched attacks immediately against the movement, which denies the right of Israel to exist at all. In the end, Hamas won control of Gaza and its grip on the enclave of around 2 million people tightened as Israel and Egypt largely sealed it off, causing intense humanitarian problems. Hamas responded with waves of rocket attacks against Israel that got worse as the years went by. Israel counterattacked from the air and with ground assaults that left thousands dead and Hamas still in charge. But Iran's influence has been key to Hamas's military power. The Iranians have trained Palestinian engineers and how to establish rocket manufacturing in Gaza. We know that the Iranians have provided production, social production equipment, which you need for the production of solid propellant rockets to Gaza and to other places as well. Israel knows it must battle Hamas on its own turf in urban areas, latticed with explosive traps and riddled with secret tunnels. And Hamas will draw on the experience of Iran backed Hezbollah, which ravaged Israel's armor in 2006. All the while trying to protect the lives of at least 130 hostages that Hamas says they will kill if Israel's attacks continue. Dealing with violent groups backed by Iran, a country that's bent on destroying Israel and building a nuclear weapon that could do just that. Sam Kiley, CNN. Some perspective now from New York Times foreign affairs columnist Thomas Friedman, who's been covering the region and writing about it since the 1980s. His bestselling account from Beirut to Jerusalem is considered required reading for students. The Middle East. Tom, why do you think this attack happened now? Why did Hamas choose to strike now? Was it divisions within Israel that they sense the the the looming Saudi deal? I have to believe that the looming Saudi deal was a big factor in this, because we're talking about something that would have been a fundamental geopolitical shift in the region. Saudi Arabia normalizing relations with Israel opens ties up between Israel and really the the rest of the of the Muslim world, possibly Indonesia, Malaysia. It would be a huge strategic shift. But more importantly, Anderson, it also would have had to have been done as part of a deal that would have, I think, strengthened the legitimacy of Hamas's archrival, the Palestinian Authority, in Ramallah, because that normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia could only have been done if Israel also made concessions to the Palestinian Authority. Give me a greater control over certain areas in the West Bank, administrative control, putting some kind of freeze of settlements down and and basically reviving hopes for a two state solution. So I think both of those were in play. And at the same time, I think it sense that Israel was completely distracted by a needless judicial coup inside and the two came together properly. The big question, of course, about the level of Iran's involvement. You know, U.S. officials have said they haven't seen a smoking gun, but certainly Iran supports Hamas. Islamic Jihad, certainly. Yeah. I mean, again, no one, I think, has a smoking gun. But same time, Iran's overriding interest in not seeing its two arch enemies, Israel and Saudi Arabia, forge an agreement together. I think it is really apparent there. Otherwise, the thing is, even beyond being barbaric, even more senseless and stupid than that, than it appears if Hamas just did this on some fleeing for no apparent reason other than had the resources, it's now, you know, visited just tremendous destruction on itself on Palestinians in Gaza and maybe lost a strategic number of weapons that it will it will hopefully you'll never be able to threaten Israel again. So I can only believe it had something to do with that Iran with that Saudi Israel normalization deal. The Israeli government has called for a complete siege of of Gaza. Benjamin Netanyahu spoke today, did not specifically talk about a ground incursion, but certainly that would seem to be in the cards or certainly a strong possibility. We all know the difficulties of that, the inherent dangers in that. We know the international outrage that will that will grow the as conditions deteriorate in Gaza and the civilian population suffers. You know, Israel risks a lot by a ground invasion, not just in blood of of of their people, of their soldiers, but also in in in actually being able to to get what they want. I mean, doesn't it? It can actually go in. It can actually play into the hands of Iran, can't it? Well, you know, in these kind of moments, Anderson, I always ask myself, and I'm sure Israel's asking itself, I hope it is, what does my enemy want? And then let's do exactly the opposite. So what do Israel's enemies want right now? Iran and Hezbollah and Hamas. They want Israel to occupy Gaza, get enmeshed in a, you know, door to door, house to house fighting. There, kill a lot of Palestinian civilians and completely erode the moral high ground that it has right now, which does have real value. That's what they want. They don't care less about their people. If they did, Hamas would have been governing Gaza in completely different way. I hope that Israel can achieve its goals of restoring its detergent, deterrence, getting its hostages back, but doing it in a way that is not against the aims of Hamas. These are hard calls I recognize. But you don't want underplay it. You don't want to overplay it. But I hope Israel does not have to go into Gaza and or if it does, doesn't go far or deep. Is it possible, though, for Israel to avoid going into Gaza? I mean, if they want to stop, Hamas is military capabilities moving forward from being able to do the same kind of attack? What other option is there? Well, I think that one of the things that Hamas has done, again, which sort of leaves you wondering what they were thinking among many things, is that they've they've shown Israel every vulnerability it had in Gaza. And they they did that for the purpose of inflicting, you know, seven or 800 civilian and military casualties on Israel. But now, where are you, Hamas? How are you better off? Are the Palestinians of Gaza better off? But you've just shown Israel when blessedly for Israel, that it had all these vulnerabilities. They will the Israelis will study this. They will close them. Hamas is now fired off a lot of weapons. Also shown Israel what new missile technology it had. So I think there's a lot of things that Israel can achieve in the long run that will leave Hamas much more weakened without having to go in and try to reoccupy the place, because if not, you know, maybe there's only one thing worse than Hamas controlling Gaza, and that's nobody controlling Gaza or Israel happening to control Gaza. And so, you know, this is this problem hasn't been insoluble for so many years for a reason. And, you know, I think this is a time for Israel to do deep thinking about how deep it gets in. I'm sure they are. But I think this is a really some critical decisions got to be taken here. There are, I'm sure, plenty of the civilians in Gaza who oppose Hamas, who don't like the Hamas regime, and yet they don't really have anywhere to go. I mean, Israel, you know, the IDF will say go to other areas. But it is it's so densely packed, it is very difficult for civilians in Gaza. And that's why, you know, Anderson, some problems are kind of insoluble. Unless Israel wants to completely occupy Gaza and nurture a completely different kind of Palestinian government there and stay there probably multiple generations, it would take, it's going to have to deal with some form, most likely, of Hamas. I think the point is to put Hamas in a situation where it can never do this kind of attack again, where it's on the defensive in international circles and is deterred. But I think deterrence is is the only outcome here. You're not going to remake Gaza. You know, the notion of you know, of completely transforming that situation through military means, it is not going to happen.
</doc>