<video_id>lGXgCyZvBzo</video_id>
<video_title>Humanitarian worker describes why it's 'impossible' to evacuate northern Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Humanitarian worker describes why it's 'impossible' to evacuate northern Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231022</publish_date>

<doc>
Nearly 40 tons of medical aid and disaster relief supplies for Gaza left India for Egypt this morning. This is according to India's Ministry of External Affairs. Despite the Rafah crossing opening for a short time yesterday to allow trucks with aid, 20 trucks to be exact, to pass through. It remains unclear if or when the border will reopen today. CNN's Priscilla Alvarez joining us now with how President Biden is responding to the humanitarian efforts. Priscilla. Well, in a statement just yesterday, the president attributed this to days of diplomatic engagement at the highest level. Of course, these attacks. But eight trucks passing through happened on the heels of President Biden's trip to Israel, as well as secretary of State Antony Blinken. High stakes shuttle diplomacy over the last several days. Now, in a statement, the president went on to note that this is a critical and urgent need, saying, quote, I made it clear from the outset of this crisis in both my public statements and private conversations that humanitarian assistance was a critical and urgent need that had to get moving. And I express my deep personal appreciation for the leadership of President al-Sisi, of Egypt, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and the United Nations to allow the resumption of this assistance. And, of course, we should also mention that President Biden did speak with Egypt's president this week, where the two agreed for this crossing to be opened. But, of course, this remains a challenge. We have heard from aid organizations who have welcomed the trucks that have been able to pass into Gaza so far. But they note that this can only be the beginning. They still need so much more. So the White House still working on trying to facilitate that, working with their counterparts in the region, while also keeping a focus on getting Palestinian Americans out of Gaza, which they have still not been able to do. Amara. Victor Alvarez for us, thanks so much. Joining us now is the Belfast spokesperson for the Palestine Red Crescent Society. Thank you for being with us. Let me start with the 17 trucks in Egypt waiting at the Rafah crossing, hoping to get into Gaza. Our reporters have spoken with those. Truck drivers say they're optimistic. What can you tell us about what's on the trucks and the probability that they'll get across that border today? Good evening. Thanks for having me. So, yes, as you highlighted, there are dozens of the trucks who are still waiting after crossing the border, waiting to get into Gaza. What we have received up to now is a tow truck hoping this will be a glimpse of hope for the entry of the rest of the trucks, because 20 trucks is only like a drop in the ocean of need. We still need a lot in terms of food, even water. 2 million Palestinian civilians now are with no food or even water besides electricity, as well as not only one hospital, all hospitals in Gaza are witnessing a collapse, the state of having shortages and medicine, medical supplies, as well as running out of the fuel. And by the way, if fuel was not also delivered by the first shipment of the humanitarian aid, which included food, water, medical supply and medicine, but not fields. Are you getting any indication as to when, if at all, there will be a sustained delivery of aid into Gaza? So basically, all the international organizations, along with countries, have been working due to all the last week long to get the aid there. And hopefully now after this aid was already in to continue working and advocating for the entry of the humanitarian aid. This this should not be a one time. We need a humanitarian corridor to allow the entry of medical supplies and the humanitarian aid at all the time in a safe way to guarantee to fulfill the needs of the humanitarian situation now in Gaza, because the humanitarian situation is literally catastrophic, whether in terms of extreme shortages of food and water or even hospitals who are now running out of fuel. And without the fuel, simply all hospitals can't operate. And that electricity means killing thousands of Palestinian civilians who were injured and now inside the hospital. So all of the aid does not include fuel. That's why we still count on the international community to keep advocating for the entry not only from the border, but from all borders to control the from the Israelis, because as an occupying power has a responsible military to ensure to provide the essential needs for civilians in Gaza, as well as hospitals who are implementing their health care worker services. And this should be not continued. Health care facilities and hospitals, along with civilians, should not pay the price and should be protected and respected according to the. Item that the Israelis concern is that the fuel, if it gets in, will make it to Hamas. Let me ask you about the latest leaflets dropped by IDF that and the Israelis contest this CNN translation. But it is that if Palestinians do not move south, they may be seem partners of the terrorists. your organization's ability to provide aid to northern Gaza if the order from the IDF is to move south? We know that there are still many thousands of Palestinians who are in northern Gaza. Yeah, let me clarify something. In the targeted area where Israel and threatened to be evacuated around a million and 200,000 Palestinians who are live and the Gaza and the north. Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were still stuck in Gaza, in their homes or any schools or even hospitals. They couldn't find their way to evacuate themselves simply because of that and asking people under continuous bombardment. Besides, there is no transportation, complete destruction of the roads and infrastructure. So absolutely, they have no way to go to. They don't have an option to choose either. It's the same case for hospitals because Israel not only asking civilians under continuous bombardment, evacuation orders from Israeli occupation forces for around a 20 foot hospital in Gaza and then ordered to evacuate, which are absolutely impossible to implement W at all, has announced that evacuation orders for hospitals are impossible to implement and they constitute a death penalty for the patients. Our hospital is one of the hospital that have received the evacuation order. We have 500 patients, some of them in the intensive care unit, and we will not be able and accept to rest the lives of our patients, most of them, or to. Ensure an impossible situation for those hospitals as well. Nebel of gaza. Thank you very much.
</doc>