<video_id>XkAVyXHFHEQ</video_id>
<video_title>IDF spokesperson: ‘We’ll do what’s needed’ to stop attacks</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\IDF spokesperson ‘We’ll do what’s needed’ to stop attacks.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231010</publish_date>

<doc>
OUTFRONT now, major Israeli Major Ben Wall houses the Israel Defense Forces. Spokesperson A major, thank you so much for joining us, first of all. What's the latest on the ground right now? Thank you, Wolf. The situation now is that we have secured the South. We no longer have hundreds of terrorists streaming across the border trying to kill our civilians. We still have forces that are going house by house, making sure that none of them are left. Hundreds streamed across the border. Two days ago, entered into more than 20 towns and cities. So our forces are still going house by house to make sure that none of them are left. At the same time, as your viewers know, we are undergoing continuous rocket fire into our cities, indiscriminate. And that's the current situation. So is it true that Israel is now in full control of all of its land at this hour? Yes, that is correct. We have fortified the border fence on Gaza as well. We have strained forces down there and they are working to make sure that the entire south is safe and secure. Prime Minister Netanyahu, as you well know, said today that the Israeli airstrikes in Gaza, in his words, are only the beginning. Are we looking right now at a ground war here as well? Well, Hamas's attacks are continuing. The rocket fire is continuous. I'm sitting here in Tel Aviv at my house in Tel Aviv. My children are continuously going from upstairs down to the basement to the bomb shelter. Sirens all throughout Israel. So the IDF has been directed by the government to stop those attacks. And we'll do what's needed in order to stop those attacks and make sure that Hamas doesn't have the capability to renew them. So you're clearly leaving open the possibility of a major Israeli ground invasion into Gaza to deal with that. The IDF has many capabilities and we are going to deploy them all in order to stop Hamas's ability to keep attacking our civilians. As you know, major Hamas is saying it will start executing the civilian hostages taken from Israel into Gaza and broadcasting it if Israel targets people in Gaza without warning. Will that change Israel's response at all? Well, that shouldn't surprise anyone. Hamas's war here is a war on civilians. It started with a massacre of women, children, elderly, entire families. They kidnaped tens of families and people and young people, toddlers, elderly women are there continuously firing rockets at our civilians. And at the same time, they're hiding behind their civilians in Gaza to try and avoid attack from us and cause more civilian casualties. So it's not surprising that they would say something like that. And our priority is to make sure that Hamas cannot carry any of that out and cannot continue attacking us. Do you believe, Major, that some of the hostages may already be dead? I don't have the information to give you that. Now. It's also for operational reasons. But obviously, our highest priority is to protect our people at home and also protect those people in Gaza. And that's what our forces are doing in the land, sea and air. Major Ben Wall, House of the Israeli Defense Force and spokesperson, thanks very much for joining us. Thank you. And the war has tragically hit very close to home for my next guest, a man who has been on our network many times over the years. Mark is the former U.S. ambassador to Morocco, former White House adviser on Middle East policy. As well, he just announced the death of his nephew, Elie Ginsburg, a lieutenant commander for Israel. Ambassador, thanks so much for joining us. You and I have known each other for many years. We are so, so sorry for the loss. This your loss this evening. What do you know so far about what happened to your nephew? Well, Elie was a lieutenant commander and a Navy SEAL in Israel, and he had just retired from serving as an operational commander for Mossad three weeks ago and was called up to lead his unit into Kibbutz Rai, where the music festival was taking place to rescue hostages that were being held by Hamas. And Brian, one of the efforts to break down one of the apartment buildings. He was shot and killed by a Hamas terrorist. I found that out for my sister in law this morning. I'm here in Morocco doing earth relief work. So it's had been a terrible day for my family and I. Our hearts go out to you, of course. Give us a little bit more about your nephew, Ambassador. What was he like? Oh, Elie. He was. He was the oldest of my three nephews who was raised on a kibbutz in this government. My brother Mike had been killed up there in 2006, so Elie had lost his father to Hezbollah and a Hezbollah attack in the war. And I know he was raised there, someone dedicated to Israel's military prowess. He I mean, the fact that he became not only a Navy SEAL, but also the lieutenant commander for the Navy SEALs and then trained in the United States at the U.S. Naval Academy. And in order to develop his his skills to train Israelis and in special commando operations. I mean, he just worked in the last year. Right. Pretty secret, Wolf. But for those of us who and I particularly was his I guess, substitute father, we were so proud of him. He leaves a beautiful wife in a kibbutz and four children, as well as two brothers and my sister in law. And we're all morning I can't make it, unfortunately, to the funeral tomorrow because the flights are extraordinarily hard. But I'll make it to Israel to be with my family as soon as I can. And when you do, please pass along our deepest, deepest condolences to your family. As you know, the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has warned there will be difficult days ahead and that Israel will go on offense against Hamas. In his words, like never before. What do you think that looks like specifically over the next 24 to 48 hours? Well, I've I've listened to both you and I know I've spent an enormous amount of time in Israel as well as in Gaza. I've watched the successive efforts by Israel to try to quell Hamas. But I'll tell you, Wolf, my biggest fear, based on the fact that my family lives up on Kibbutz Maccabi, I'm on the Lebanese border, is that diabolically, given my own view and hatred for Hezbollah and Hamas, it's very conceivable that part of the scheme here directed by Iran is to exhaust Israel's supply of Iron Dome missiles, because Hezbollah, as you well know, Wolf, and you're an expert on this, if if Hamas fire 2000 to 3000 missiles at Israel in a matter of two days, Hamas, Hezbollah has 150,000 guided missiles and no Iron Dome system that Israel currently has and is already badly depleted can withstand that type of attack. It's a serious, very serious situation, as I continue to say, and I hope I'm wrong, this war is only just beginning. Ambassador Mark Ginsberg, our deepest, deepest condolences to you and your family. Thank you very much for joining us.
</doc>