<video_id>99J4g9bwZAY</video_id>
<video_title>IDF spokesperson shares how hostages were found</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\IDF spokesperson shares how hostages were found.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240901</publish_date>

<doc>
Israelis are on the streets protesting, demanding a cease fire agreement after defense officials said they recovered the bodies of six Israeli hostages murdered by Hamas, including Israeli-American Hirsh Goldberg, Poland, who was 23 years old. An IDF spokesman said Hamas brutally killed the six young adults in an underground tunnel near Rafah, a short time before Israeli forces arrived. Three of them would have been released in the early stages of a ceasefire agreement, two Israeli officials told CNN. An agreement, President Biden said last night was on the verge of happening, while Vice President Harris released a statement that reads, in part, the threat Hamas poses to the people of Israel and American citizens in Israel must be eliminated and Hamas cannot control Gaza. The Palestinian people, too, have suffered under Hamas rule for nearly two decades. Here with me now is IDF spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Nadav Shoshana. Thank you so much for being here. We are so incredibly devastated. for for Israel, for all of the families. it's just hard to even imagine how much pain everybody is in. And as a spokesperson for the IDF, I'd like for you to explain exactly what happened when these six bodies were found. Thank you. Thank you for having me. This is, a very sad morning in Israel. Very sad news coming out of the Gaza Strip. And, announcing today after we were able to talk to the families and inform them about finding the bodies of their loved ones. these were six people that were taken on October 7th, and, in our operations in Lofa, in an underground tunnel. We found their bodies, and we thought we brought them back to Israel. We examined them, and we found that they were, murdered by Hamas recently. and we were able to inform the families about it and share the news today, the very, very sad news about them. And and just to be clear, just because we're obviously, trying to get information about exactly how this this happened were, IDF soldiers actually looking for these six hostages, or did they find them as part of a separate, mission? But we we have been operating above and underground in that area, combating terrorists and, searching in the underground tunnels, as we've done in recent weeks in Lofa. And this is an area, I remind you, it's, less than a mile from where we found off on the, the hostage that we were able to rescue alive a few days ago. So there was some idea of hostages being in the area, but this was not a specific mission to release hostages. But, part of our ordinary, combat missions against Hamas above an underground. So you said that you believe that they were murdered recently? can you be more specific about how recently? Well, we are still, examining the information also operationally in the tunnel and also examining the bodies. and this is a process that might take a while, and we are personally obligated to inform the families. and then we'll have the information more public. But according to our initial, inquiry of the situation, they were murdered recently by Hamas terrorists. They were taken alive from Israel. They were, living in horrible conditions for almost a month. And recently, they were murdered by the terror organization. and we were able to find them, yesterday. do you have any idea? And I realize this is early and obviously, understandably, very delicate. Delicate. But do you have any idea, based on, when and where, these, individuals and their bodies were found that they were murdered. After hearing or sensing that the IDF was close by. Well, I we will be able to put that information later, but I think that that's not the question. Hamas is a terrorist organization that came to Israel, murdered thousands of people and abducted these innocent civilian young people from a party, and and they murdered them. And that is because they're a terrorist organization. And I think I would I would not be the one looking for reasons from us for why this this. No. The terror organization killing innocent civilians. One of them, an American civilian. you all know of that was was killed brutally. Yeah. I yeah. And I just want to make no mistake about this. Hamas is a terror organization, and they are the ones, to blame for this. I guess the reason I was asking that question is whether or not they were close to being rescued. That was the basis for my question. Right. We're we're operating and we have a moral obligation and an operational priority to bring home their two 101 hostages. And we are working to bring them home as we have been able to bring, a few home one. Right. just last week. And we're operating for that and that that was part of our operation in that area. Hoping to find hostages. And sadly, we found them. we found bodies, but we're still operating in all parts of Gaza, hoping to find hostages. There are still many hostages alive. And that's why it's important for us to continue this pressure and to try and bring them home alive. Lieutenant Colonel Shoshana, thank you so much for being here. And again, we are just devastated by the news. My next guest spoke forcefully at the Republican convention in July, leading the crowd in chants of bring them home! Here with me now are Ronen and Orna Neutra, the parents of Israeli American citizen Omar Neutra held hostage by Hamas. Thank you so much for being here this morning. particularly given the fact that I know how close you are to all of the hostage families, but particularly, the the Goldberg pollens, the two. Hirsh and Omar, almost the same age. Omar is going to turn 23 next month, and I can't imagine how difficult it must be to watch this news, knowing that your beautiful son is still in captivity. It's absolutely right, Dana. There are no words for us, really, to comfort all the families. But specifically, we've become very close with the Goldberg pollens. They're like our family. We've traveled the world with. We've met together with leaders, and we're completely devastated by this news. You know, we were holding on to this vision that, Omer and Hirsch are together, that they would come out together. And it's just completely devastating and a stark reminder to the conditions that these hostages are being held in, that this is a terrorist group that is holding on to them, and that things have to work much faster for them to come out. Well, on that, Prime Minister Netanyahu said he is personally committed to achieving a deal to free the remaining hostages. What is your message to him right now? You know, Dana, we we we are just hoping that he's doing everything he can. the situation is dire. It's urgent. We've seen him putting all kind of hurdles. We know the Israeli people are going out in large numbers and calling the government to do what their job is, to bring the hostages home. 101 hostage is left. And, dying there. And every day is huge risk for each one of them. So we we urge him to do what is tasked to do, in Israel. but just as well, we are calling on our leaders here in United States to do what they want us to do. We are calling on President Biden, on Vice President Harris to do everything in their power to reach a deal and bring the hostages back. We were warning about that kind of situation. It's such a risky time for all those hostages. I mean, Hirsch managed to survive 11 months in captivity. He lost his arm. And after all of this, to be killed a few days, maybe before a deal. Yeah, it's it's really devastating. Really is. Of course it is. Or not. Finally, you say a verse from Psalm 23 every day, the Psalm of David, to send your son protection. Can you share what you say before we let you go? You know, I, I not only say the Psalm, you know, I pray for my son every single day. I pray for the hostages, as did Rachel Goldberg. You know, we we feel that we're doing our share. You know, and and and praying and advocating and speaking up for them. It's time for the leaders to get this done and get them out. Enough is enough. the families have been warning about this. The writing was on the wall, and this negotiation has been taking way too long. They need to come out. The leaders need to do whatever needs to be done for them to come out. Yeah. And did I want to remind you, four American living hostages still in captivity. And I want to say their name real quick. And and Alexander Skyler Callahan, our son, Omer Neutra and Keith Segal, who was, 64 year old. We got to bring them home. The American administration need to come up with a plan to bring their own American home and the rest of the hostages, and, of course, the deceased hostages. And, of course, bring the three deceased hostages. Daddy, Judy and Italian. It's a must. I hear the desperation and the pain in your voice. And, what we hear, I'm sure, only pales in comparison to how you feel in your hearts. 331 is on your stickers, on your on your shirts. That is the number of days your beautiful son has been, in captivity with others. Thank you so much for on this very difficult day coming on and continuing to press the way you have been so heroically for so many months. I appreciate it.
</doc>