<video_id>p1S3BsnflMs</video_id>
<video_title>IDF spokesman says military working with officials to evacuate remaining hospital patients</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\IDF spokesman says military working with officials to evacuate remaining hospital patients.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231112</publish_date>

<doc>
IDF spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conr joins us now from Tel Aviv. Colonel, thanks very much. I want to ask you about what's taking place right now with the Al-Shifa Hospital What can you tell us about what's being done to make sure some of these innocent civilians can get out of there, the babies that have been talked and so on? What is going on there with this hospital? What can you share? Hi, Jim. Thank you for having me. We are on day 36 of the war and 239 Israeli hostages are still being held in Gaza. Regarding the hospital, we are in contact with local aut in Gaza with the manager and oth and assisting them and then informing them where they can go in order to evacuate from the area. And we are also trying to coordi the safe removal and transport of the remaining patients that are still inside the hospit I want to emphasize, we haven't struck the hospital and we are not surrounding it or applying any pressure on it. We have troops in the vicinity, but we have not been engaging with the hospital or any parts o And so I guess maybe you can help us clear this Why is it that the health minist claims that the hospital is completely surrounded? We've also heard from a spokespe from the Israeli military, I guess one of your counterparts at a wing of that hospital is still open for people to safely evacuate. Help us sort that out. What's going on? Yeah, indeed. That is what we've told the Palestinians as well, that the Eastern wing i and that all of the people that  there, the displaced persons that have been seeking shelter, as well as others who are in the compound, can mov And we have instructed them, even by the names of streets and locations where they should  When we will do the next humanitarian window. As you know, we've been doing th for the last five days in various locations in the Gaza where we've been stopping our fi calling Palestinians and telling them to evacuate. The main road is Salahadin, the main thoroughfare of the Gaza Strip, but then also Al-Rashid Street, the coastal road. We've opened that up as well during select hours of the day,  hours, which allows Palestinians to mov and to go to relative safety in the south. Again, under our commitment not to strike civilians and out of respect for the sanctity of human life, which is much more than what Hamas is doing at this time And so what can you tell us about these reports that we're seeing about tanks surrounding the hospital? Is that happening? And are you conducting an operat in that area? I know you said in the past, Colonel, that you don't target h and that sort of thing. But you've also said and others have said with the IDF that sometimes the hospitals and these kinds of civilian faci are used by Hamas for their oper And so is there an operation? Is there an IDF operation going on in that area to find th and around that facility, that h Yeah, our troops are definitely  We have troops that have approached that area from various locations We have to understand that the viewers who may not have been following are just joining that the Shifa compound is indeed in hospital, but underneath are layers and layers of Hamas military act that they have established underneath the hospital whereby they are using the hospi for military needs, which is a w It's against the Geneva Conventi They are endangering the protect of the hospital by doing so. And what we have done, first and foremost, is to inform the Palestinians and also the world that we know that Hamas is using the hospital for military purposes. We know that it is full of Hamas combatants that are seeking shelter and trying to hide away from our underneath the hospital. That is also one of the reasons why we are trying to evacuate it because we don't want Hamas to continue to use these people  human shields in the future. I mean, that sounds like a very difficult and complicated operation that you're trying to undertake. Then what happens to the hospital at the end of all of this is doe the IDF seek to control it, take I mean, if you have to get at Ha terrorists who are hiding inside tunnels underneath the hospital, one would think at some point you have to take over the hospit or take over the area around that hospital. Is that something that you're seeking to do? Well, I agree with you totally t it is a very complex situation and one that we would rather not find ourselves in. But ever since October the seventh, we are in this situation where we have to fight inside Ga and we have to strike Hamas wherever there are hiding underneath civilians in the tunn and also underneath hospitals. And our aim is to dismantle all  military infrastructure and Hamas has embedded a significant portion of their military capability, specifically under Shifa. And it is our aim to dismantle all of their military capabiliti I cannot go into further details about what, when and where will  I can say that it would be best for everybody involved, including those who will need the hospital the day after the war, for Hamas to come out of their hiding and stop abusing civilian infrastructure If they don't, of course, we will have to respond accordin implement our military plans. And Colonel, I'm sure you saw th that the secretary of state, Tony Blinken, of course, he's a part of the Biden administrati and they've been very supportive of the Israeli government, of the IDF throughout all of this. But the secretary of state did s in the last day or so that there have been too m Palestinians killed in the Israeli operation in Gaza. What's the response to that? Well, I agree that there are man that have been killed, and I am sad about civilians that have nothing to do with fig who are killed or wounded or displaced by fight That is not our goal. And I think that the Israeli gov and the military has been very clear and forthcoming that we are not fighting against the civilians. We try to do everything we can to get them out of the battlefie so that we can focus on fighting And I think that the government and we are talking, you know, at the military level, we are communicating with our military counterparts. We're not only telling them what we're doing, we're showing them what we are d and what Hamas is doing, their v and how they are using the civil as human shields. And we are showing what we are d the measures that we are impleme in order to minimize the damage to civilians. I definitely hope that, you know these numbers can come down and what we are achieving is basically we're emptying northern Gaza of civilians tempo Exactly. In order to minimize and lower the amount of civilian casualtie that is our aim, because we seek that operational to be able to go after Hamas. And Hamas is under pressure. You know, they're under pressure They're indicating that they're under pressure. There have been reports of them shooting at evacuees and all kinds of efforts by Hamas to stop evacuations in various l We understand that they're under pressure because they want these civilian casualties occurring to that point because of the difficulty and dealing with these humanitarian pauses and opening them up and opening up these corridors a The president of the United Stat President Biden, did say in just the last couple of days that he thinks that these pauses need to be longer. Are you open to that longer paus Yeah. You know, already on the ground, these pauses, they have an effect on our comba rhythm and the ability to conduct our missions because you know, when you apply pressure on your  you want that pressure to be rel And the fact that we stopped during many hours of the day has a price for us, a combat pri it what we already have done. Also responding to those request and statements made by the presi and others is to add hours It started with 4 hours and now it's five. Maybe it will be expanded more. We added another round. Right. It was only the central route. And now we've opened up a northern route as well along the coast, Al-Rasheed Street, in addition to Salahadin. So we are definitely listening. We're definitely trying to find good ways of evacuating civilians to minimize the effect on them while still doing what we need t And this is important. We're not in Gaza for the or the amusement of it. We are there because we are fighting Hamas. They need to be dismantled. Otherwise we won't be able to li in southern Israel. And we need to get our hostages  And I understand that. And but you brought up hostages. One of the items that has been d in all of this is and you're probably aware of this, there are multiple parties involved in these kinds of talks that the longer the humanitarian pause is potent that could lead to the release of hostages. There have been negotiations going on to that end. Are you open to that Yeah, I'm not entirely sure that that is the correct working assumptio I think that what Hamas is tryin both its internal leadership and its overseas or external leadership, they're basically trying to play and they're trying to force Israel through international pre while using the hostages, the poor, women, children, babies and elderly peo that they've been holding for more than 36 days. They're using them as leverage in order to get the IDF to back off and r in our military pressure. And I think that Israel has been there won't be any kind of cease before we get hostages back. Talking can be done. That's all fine. But there needs to be continuous pressure on Hamas. That is the only thing that is e And by the way, maneuvering on the ground, creating that kind of friction on the ground between us and enemy forces, creates intelligence and creates other opportunities that hopefully we will be able to leverage in order to get our people home. Okay. Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus, thank you once again for your time. We appreciate it this evening. Thank you. Thank you for having 
</doc>