
<doc>
Right now, we are seeing smoke coming out there. We're looking at these live pictures of Gaza City. We're seeing smoke coming out of Gaza City at this moment. What do you believe could be happening right now as we are talking about this? We've seen already quite a few air strikes occurring in Israel, throughout Gaza, but the vast concentration of them are in Gaza City. What do you think is happening tonight? Okay, so that's one thing you're seeing right now. That's a result of direct 15 and 35 Israeli Air Force selective fire there, special operations, Air Force commandos, a unit called Shell, very elite Tier one asset. It's called the Kingfisher Unit. And they are on the ground helping to put those missiles into specific Hamas buildings to completely dismantle Hamas's infrastructure. So that immobilizes them completely. That's what the smoke is from the other thing. The reason why this is happening at night, it allows clandestine operations to be conducted within Gaza, using deception for operatives to be able to get inside they're tapping cell phones, putting down recording devices. So Israel is setting an entire pre raid operation here for two things. One, for one that counteroffensive starts and then to and the most important thing for us the able to get those hostages back. Let's take a listen here. You can hear those bombs going off in the background in Gaza City. We don't always hear or see at this time if you're on the ground right now. But you can. Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. Can you even tell based on listening to that, the force the magnitude of what they are? Yeah. I mean, look, there's going to be a lot of destruction. A lot of people are going to get killed and hurt. It's happening on the Israeli side. The Palestinians will make something really clear. Israel has no issue with the Palestinian people. In fact, the Palestinian people ideally would want to be able to cross the southern border of Gaza to get into Egypt. But they can't. Hamas is keeping them closed in there. And like a like a whatsername said. That is a problem if they're starting to be used as human shields. And it creates immense levels of risk to the Palestinian And so we do our best to follow international law. When we look at the the before and after of some of these spaces, it looks like just an enormous amount of rubble. Do you see a tactical strategy in the you know, the flattening of some of these buildings? Absolutely. All of that. Absolutely, yeah. So the flattening of the structures, the artillery pieces that are going in there, they're starting to open up lanes, if you will, for this massive counteroffensive that's being prepared. The other thing that we're doing is we're tiring out Hamas. We're treating this as what we call like a pressure cooker. And we've got a civil affairs. And that pressure cooker is designed to try and slow things down so that we can collect intelligence and so that we can tire out this terror group. And a tired terrorist is a better terrorist. Who's holding innocent women and children. So taking our time and doing the best we can to collect info, try and slow this thing down, opening up lanes for the Givati Brigade, which is equivalent to the US Marines. They're the ones who are in charge of the of the Southern Command, and they're the ones who have been into Gaza previously in the last war in Gaza. And so those were they're opening up, parting ways, if you will, so that the Israelis will be able to move in there as safely as possible to get to the terrorists and is it safe to describe what we are seeing tonight and hearing tonight in in the skies over Gaza as a prelude potentially to a ground invasion? Well well, I can tell you that a ground invasion is is is imminent when it's going to happen. I couldn't tell you. I'm not I'm not I'm not going to speculate. I don't want to give it any information that might be inaccurate. But the fact that 300,000 reservists have been mobilized, the fact that the Givati Brigade is down there, the fact that the share that the Israeli SEALs are already operating on that coast, you can bet that they're preparing for the inevitability of having to go in there. And the unfortunate part, like Anderson said very gently and eloquently. It's going to be vicious. You can hear there. You can hear the missile fire you can hear that hitting the rubble. It's going to be there's going to be a lot of violence of action. There will be a lot of death and trauma but we believe there could be over 150 hostages in there. So we're looking at two multiple assaults. And, Aaron, I just want to emphasize for our viewers, if you've been joining us tonight, leave, we do not always hear bombardment at this hour of this strength, this seems to be there's intense fighting that's happening right now. Those are the I hear artillery pieces that are going off. Again, that's to soften the and open up the runways for for those infantry units that that will eventually go in. I hear the call to prayer right now also. And the other thing we're hearing is that selective missile fire. There's potentially Israelis inside Gaza right now. These are special operations forces. They're doing everything they can to get intelligence to prepare for the counteroffensive. And unfortunately, this is the price that Israelis pay and that Palestinians. Piers, let's listen for just a moment As you just said, this is called to prayer or you're listening and watching. These are images of Gaza City as the bombs light up the night sky. There, we're hearing what sounds like a call to prayer, even some sirens in a few moments ago as the bombs are dropping right now. This is the population center of Gaza. About almost 600,000 people live here and the intensity of the bombardment seems to have picked up just in the last couple of minutes. As we've been speaking to you and watching these images. That sign, according to my guest here, Aaron Cohen, that potentially this is picking up. And as he says, as you've said, Aaron, perhaps a sign that this ground invasion could be imminent, as is the Israeli defense forces are moving more aggressively, it seems, tonight to prepare to soften this ground for the some 300,000 troops who are amassed along the border. Get ready to go in. That's right. Gaza is an incredibly densely populated area. Hamas has had years to keep building it up. This is one of the most dangerous places on earth. I just want to make it really clear, the Israelis, as an IDF soldier, as a veteran of the IDF, we don't have an issue with the Palestinians and we want to do what we can to get Hamas away from them. And so we're going to use as much selectivity. Is the difference with the footage that you are showing is that we're not going to indiscriminately hurt anybody. However, lines have been crossed and decisions have been made. Leadership will roll. Intelligence heads will be gone. We don't we're not focusing on that right now. But this is the most significant hostage siege in the history of modern warfare. Let's talk about that for a second. Again, I mean, the hostages, if is it necessary for there to be surgical operation and to try to find and free those hostages prior to any kind of war, a large scale ground invasion of the idea? Yes, it is. It is it is critical to continue to soften as much of the Hamas infrastructure within Khan Younis within Rafah within Gaza City and all of the small villages in between in order to reduce risk to those larger infantry units they're going to move into Gaza in order to minimize getting killed. Urban warfare is incredibly complex. This is essentially a symmetrical or 90 degree angle fighting. And so bringing down those buildings means less walls for terrorists to hide behind.
</doc>