<video_id>vta0CkM8xW8</video_id>
<video_title>Iran deploys naval destroyer to Red Sea</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Iran deploys naval destroyer to Red Sea.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240102</publish_date>

<doc>
As tensions soar in the Middle East, the Iranian navy has deployed a warship to the Red Sea. This movement comes just a few days after the US military sank three boats belonging to the Houthis. The Houthis are an Iranian backed group from Yemen who have been targeting commercial vessels in the Red Sea. Let's bring in CNN's Natasha Bertrand, who was following all of this for us. From the Pentagon. So Natasha, how is the Pentagon responding to this? Well, Rachel, a defense official tells us that they are monitoring the situation closely, of course, because it comes amid all of the rising tensions in the Red Sea with the Houthis, which are an Iran backed group. Iran does provide support and intelligence to the Houthis, according to the White House. And so the US is monitoring this very closely. However, it is important to note that this is not the first time that Iran has deployed assets to the Red Sea. They operate there pretty regularly. But the US, of course, is eyeing this because of the fact that they say that Iran has been providing the Houthis with the kind of maritime intelligence that they need to select targets in the Red Sea as they are hit commercial vessels there. There have been over 100 attacks by these Iran backed Houthi militants on commercial vessels in the Red Sea since really in the last month, a month and a half. And so the uptick that we have seen is really remarkable and it has really ensnared international shipping and commerce. The fact that Iran is now there just a day or two after the US shot down, fired on small boats that contained Houthi militants, sinking them and killing all of those Houthi militants on board could be seen as a sign that Iran is trying to present a show of force to the Americans. Of course, who are operating in the area because if you'll recall, the US also set up a multinational maritime task force to bolster security in the Red Sea, to try to prevent the Houthis from launching these attacks and to escort vessels that are transiting the areas that they feel safe are going up and through the Suez Canal so that international shipping can kind of get back on track here. So this is not right now being seen by the Pentagon as a direct threat to the US or any of its allies. Instead, they are watching it very closely they do not necessarily think that Iran is going to conduct any kind of provocations here, but both sides obviously trying to send a message to the other there that they are in the region. They can respond if and when they deem it is necessary for help. Now, with huge implications that that region is that channels an area 12% of global commerce travel through Israel has huge implications Natasha Bertrand live for us there at the Pentagon. Natasha, thank you. All right. Joining us now, CNN military analyst, former NATO supreme allied commander General Wesley Clark. General, this is the Iranian naval vessel that is being deployed. I can show you where it's going. It's going in the Red Sea, particularly down in this area right here where there's been a lot of activity the last several days. What is the presence of this Iranian vessel change? Sure it is. First of all, it's going to collect intelligence on U.S. activities in the area. It's going to serve as a deterrent or they believe it will deter U.S. actions against the Houthis. It will certainly inhibit us in the sense of maneuvering. It's one more factor for us to consider it. It raises tensions in the region. It shows Iran's hegemonic aspirations, demonstrates those. And we'll just have to see where this goes, John. If the Houthis say okay, we got the Iranians here now, we're not going to interfere with the shipping. Fine. So who do you say now? We got the Iranians here. We can do more to interdict the shipping Iran has got to get its destroyer out of the way as we protect the shipping. If that destroyer gets in the way, if it interferes with the shipping, if it supports the Houthis, then that is a challenge that will have to be met by the United States militarily. Well, if the watches develop over the next several days, let's talk about what's happening in Ukraine, because Russia has continued its air assault on this nation, including the capital of Kiev, where we have seen the destruction inside the capital city. Now, it's believed that these attacks carried out with a number of different types of weapons. But one thing that the Russians are using are these airborne hypersonic missiles, which can deliver quite a blow certainly to civilian areas here. Talk to us about what these weapons in the fact that Russia is using them. Well, first of all, these weapons can be shot down by Patriot missiles, but the Russians are using them in combination with other devices, with ballistic missiles, with the Iranian supplied drones and other things. And they're coming at such a way from such directions as to basically overwhelm the Ukrainians defense management system. If you could get the Patriots in the right position, if you could choose them at the right time, they could stop these missiles. But there aren't enough Patriots to handle all of the requirements there. So this is an ongoing struggle. It's going to cause a lot of pain and grief in Ukraine. And the United States and the West have got to provide the assets, more assets to enable Ukraine to handle this. And that's very difficult because we're not producing and we don't have any excess Patriot batteries right now as long as we're talking about air power. We've learned now that since this latest round of air attacks from Russia began, the polls have said in Poland, they've said that some of the missiles have flown over Polish airspace And now Poland says it's going to deploy some of its warplanes over its country in its own defense. Is this posturing, General? What's going on here? I think it is posturing. I think it's a political move by the government in Warsaw. I don't think that the Russians intend to strike Poland, as that's an entirely different scenario if they're going to do that. But on the other hand, Poland is showing its concern and assuring it to shore not only its domestic population, but to the other members of NATO and particularly to Germany, France and the United States. It's part of Europe asking the United States to lead. Do more, get reinforcement equipment to Ukraine to help Ukraine fight Russia in Ukraine. It's all part of the diplomatic signaling going on right now. General Wesley Clark, as always, we appreciate your time. Thank you so much for being with us today. Happy New Year.
</doc>