<video_id>m9pFYovnPcs</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli journalist says Netanyahu is Israel’s worst prime minister</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli journalist says Netanyahu is Israel’s worst prime minister.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240405</publish_date>

<doc>
President Biden is not alone in expressing his frustration over how Netanyahu is conducting this war. Many Israelis are also angry and voicing their outrage, holding nightly protests, demanding not only that, the Netanyahu government focus more on a deal to bring home the remaining hostages, but also many of them calling for Israel's longest serving prime minister in history to resign. My next guest says, quote, Benjamin Netanyahu is Israel's worst prime minister ever and that Netanyahu's obsession with his own destiny as Israel's protector has caused his country grievous damage. And Angela Pfeifer joins us now from his ranch. Thank you so much for joining us. In your article, you write that Prime Minister Netanyahu, had he accepted defeat in 2021, perhaps today he would have been remembered as one of Israel's most successful prime ministers. Instead, you write, quote, He has brought far right extremists into the mainstream of government and made himself and the country beholden to them. His corruption is flamboyant and he has made terrible security decisions that brought existential danger to the country he pledged to lead and protect. Above all, his selfishness is without parallel. He has put his own interests ahead of Israel's at every turn, unquote. Do you think that Netanyahu is dragging this war on out longer than it needs to be for his own political survival? I think that it's very clear by now that the way the war is going, which on one side it's now is talking about a total victory and the need to press on to do the operation in the way that he's conditioning a hostage agreement or release agreement for it, for a temporary ceasefire with some kind of bigger military push. Well, at the same time, we're seeing on the ground that the military isn't carrying out that push and is scaling down with Israeli forces. It looks like a recipe for a much longer war. And the main reason for that happening is that it's in the out feels that as long as this war is as long as this, we can say that the war it it'll be much more difficult for his political opponents to demand an early election which will probably remove him. So it's just a factual matter that Netanyahu's survival as prime minister depends on some anti-Arab zealots in his cabinet, Ben-Gvir and Smotrich. Primarily, he needs their support to stay in power. If he alienates them, they can leave and he and there will be a new election. He'll he'll not have support to be prime minister. How much do you think that's the reason that not enough humanitarian aid is getting into Gaza? I don't think that's the main reason. I think the reason that not enough humanitarian aid got into Gaza is a combination of reasons, which partly it's the trauma that Israelis were feeling in the aftermath of the of October seven. Partly, it's the way that the Israeli military was focused on them, on the military campaign, and didn't think that the humanitarian side of it was something that they, as the army needed, needed to to prioritize. And yes, the third element, I think, is this political paralysis at the heart of Netanyahu's cabinet. He can't make any major decision because he's scared of angering either the the far right wing of his government, without whom he doesn't have a majority or the pragmatic wing. And, of course, the Biden administration. That leads to indecision. And what we're seeing now is that there needed to be some kind of proactive take on the humanitarian front and that that has been absent from Israel's decision making. And that and Netanyahu is the man responsible for that. So President Biden had a tough conversation with Netanyahu in which he said it was going to be tough for the United States to continue to support Israel if Gaza keeps going the way it is. The campaign. What do you think Netanyahu is going to do? Our friend Barak Ravid is reporting that Biden said out, out and out. If he doesn't change it, it's going to be tough to support you. Well, that's also what the White House readout said. And we saw already what Netanyahu did immediately after his very tough phone call with it, with the president, that he rushed to the Israeli cabinet and immediately passed a decision to open up the main routes through Israel for supplies to Gaza. This is something that for six months the Israeli government hasn't done is in the out, did this literally within minutes of speaking to Biden. So we can see that this call had a major effect on the. But it's interesting that Netanyahu rushed to vote at the beginning of the cabinet meeting now. Votes usually take place after a debate is is held. In this case. The Senate was so scared of one of his far right ministers written by Ben-Gvir who had been delayed and wasn't yet at the cabinet meeting that he rushed to have the vote before Benjamin came. So on the one hand, he could, he hopes, appease Biden by making those decisions and the other hand avoid a confrontation with one of his partners. Fascinating. Anshel Pfeffer, thank you so much. Come back.
</doc>