<video_id>t_TG4x1SplA</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli military accidentally shoots and kills 3 Israelis held hostage in Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli military accidentally shoots and kills 3 Israelis held hostage in Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231215</publish_date>

<doc>
The IDF saying that it mistakenly killed three Israeli hostages in Gaza. An IDF spokesman says the victims were misidentified as a threat and shot dead. CNN's Jeremy Diamond is in direct Israel with more on this tragic development. Jeremy, what more is the IDF saying about this Yeah, it's very sad news. And the Israeli military is admitting that soldiers effectively mistakenly identified these three Israeli hostages as a threat and shot and killed them during combat operations being conducted in Israel, which has been the scene of very heavy fighting between Israel. And Hamas over the course of the last week or two of the three hostages have been identified. One of the families of the hostage of one of the deceased hostages asked that their name not be broadcast, but the two who we can tell you are Yotam Hayyim, who was kidnaped from Kibbutz Kfar AZA on October 7th. And the second is Summer Talca who was kidnaped from Kibbutz Nir, also on October 7th. The Israeli military effectively recovered these bodies in Gaza, move them to Israel, where they were taken to a forensic center and then subsequently positively identified as the bodies of three hostages who have been who were kidnaped by Hamas on October 7th. Now, we should note amid all of this, that this comes as the Israeli military had loosened its rules of engagement as it began this war in Gaza following those October 7th attacks, allowing Israeli soldiers to fire upon suspected terrorists with while conducting fewer checks than they normally would have. The Israeli military, we're told, is taking lessons from this incident and transmitting them to soldiers in the field. They also say that they, quote, expressed their deep remorse over the tragic incident and send the families their heartfelt condolences. This also comes as we know that some of those former hostages who were freed as part of that weeklong truce between Israel and Hamas, they angrily confronted the Israeli prime minister last week with one of those former hostages accusing the Israeli government of having no information and no intelligence about the whereabouts of these hostages, noting that the location where she was being kept by Hamas was actually shelled by the Israeli military. And today, we are learning of a far more tragic and direct incident where Israeli forces appear to have fired upon Israeli hostages in Gaza, believing that they were a threat, and then ultimately realizing later after the fact that they were indeed hostages forced them. Jeremy you mentioned the loosened rules of engagement. Obviously, U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan is in the Middle East right now. He's expressed the Biden administration's concern about the intensity of the IDF offensive. Of course, President Biden's desire for Israel to tone it down. How do you think this news is going to play into the tone of these talks? Well, we'll have to wait and see. I mean, hostage negotiations are one of the key elements of Jake Sullivan's visit in meetings with Israeli officials. But as you noted, one of the other focuses is indeed the civilian casualty count. I mean, we have watched there's now nearly 19,000 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza. Some of those combatants, many of those noncombatants, including over 7000 children who are believed to be among those who have been killed in Gaza, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. And Jake Sullivan said earlier today that he believes Israel intends to distinguish between Hamas targets and civilians, but that that intention does not always line up with the reality on the ground. And that reality, that mismatch has really up until now mostly applied to Palestine and civilians. But in this case, it appears to also be matching up to a reality that has now affected and resulted in the loss of life of three Israeli civilians. Who were held hostage by Hamas and unfortunately today killed by Israeli forces. All right, Jeremy Diamond, thank you so much. And joining us now is IDF spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus. Jonathan, how did this happen? What can you tell us Yes, good evening. It's ninth here in Israel and a very sad and tragic event, one that the IDF, of course, terribly regrets and has told that to the families. We are investigating how it happened. One of the contributing factors are obviously related to the fact or can obviously be related to the fact that so far what we have encountered on the battlefield are many Hamas combatants that have been dressed in civilian clothes. And I'm quite sure that that has been part of the issue here. But it's still very early to understand and to say certain things. And what we can say and confirm is what we have issued. Obviously, a very sad event. Tragic event, of course, goes against everything that what we have been trying to do for the last two months, more than two months. It's day 70 of the fighting. But even sad events like this will not shake our resolve. And it will not divert us from the focus, which is clear to dismantle families and save lives. Sir, you broke up there at the end. But I'm curious because you mentioned that the IDF is still trying to get details on exactly what transpired in a statement from the IDF. It says that immediate lessons from the event have been learned, which have been passed on to all IDF troops in the field. Can you share what those lessons were, if there's going to be a different approach by the IDF now looking into how it happened, how it came about, that these hostages were out and trying to understand how that happened, whether it was intentional or by Hamas or whether it wasn't intentional. And what we have told our troops is to exercise caution when being confronted with people in civilian clothes. Again, part of the complexity here is that we're fighting in a civilian environment where almost all of the RPG crews and the groups that have attacking our tanks and our troops have been dressed And so it creates a very dynamic and challenging combat environment. our troops is to be extra vigilant and do one more safety check before dealing with kinetics with any threat that they face on the battlefield. But it is a very challenging environment that our troops are. Just a follow up on what you said. You said these hostages were out. Can you just expand on that a little bit? What do you mean by that? Just the circumstances around this. And as we just heard our Jeremy Diamond talk about the fact that the rules of engagement have been loosened since the October 7th attack. Do you think that could have played a role in the killings of these three Israeli hostages? I don't know what the Jeremy base is that on. And I am not aware of any different rules of engagement. Our rules of engagement are those of a military at war against the terrorist organization that use the civilian infrastructure, use the schools and hospitals and mosques and ambulances and all the things that we have seen and you have reported on during the last two months. And so I am not aware that we have changed any of our rules of engagement. There are according to the laws of conflict and according to our standard practice in war. And we will have to look into and analyze exactly what happened and what I can say so far is that these the three Israelis, former hostages, they were above ground into the air in close proximity to air one of our units in the area and then were misidentified as posing a threat and therefore Israeli troops followed the fortunate.
</doc>