<video_id>bYxGjMCTFdE</video_id>
<video_title>Israel Defense Force general recounts what he saw after Hamas attack</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israel Defense Force general recounts what he saw after Hamas attack.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231011</publish_date>

<doc>
And I want to begin our coverage live here tonight with Nic Robertson. He is OUTFRONT live in Stuttgart, Israel, which is about 45 miles south of where I'm standing right now. And Nic, where you are. Many loud explosions just moments ago. What's happening, as best as you can tell? Yeah, there's a lot of helicopter activity in the sky. You heard fighter jets. This is not that uncommon, but we've heard a lot of mechanical, heavy equipment moving in the area between this town and the Gaza Gaza fence, which is less than a couple of miles really from where we're standing right now, says a lot of mechanized machinery, mechanized units being military units being maneuvered in that area. At the moment, we don't know what form, but the explosions that we've been experiencing here over the past past perhaps hour or so, but pretty intense up up here in the past 20 minutes. You see a big flash go off behind me. Counter counter three can't afford to count to five and then you will hear a huge explosion. The explosions have been enough to shake the roof of this building here. So that impacting in Gaza a couple of miles away. And it's enough to shake the roof of the building here. But what we found when we went to Camp Azhar, which it took, by the way, it took the Israeli Defense Forces 48 hours of fighting against Hamas to take back control of it. What we found there and what the Israeli Defense Forces wanted to show us was what they were describing as the brutality of the way that people were treated, that the residents were treated, that some of them had their hands bound. That's how families were executed. Parents, children, people even beheaded, he said. This is what happened on the road that the drive into Kafr AZA is chilling evidence of Hamas's butchery Everywhere. This Israel Defense Force general shocked at what he found. I thought about General Eisenhower that come to the death camp in Europe. And the first thing that he said is brings this press young children. He did the same in fighting about 50 journalists. You will see it's a it's a big massacre, a big, big day. Have you ever seen anything like this in your career? Never. For less than a mile from Gaza. 70 Hamas fighters stormed in here early Saturday, some even flying. They're telling us this is one of the paragliders that flew in here. You can see the engine here, the propellers here made of carbon fiber. The fuel tank up here and the frame of it and the seats at the front. The IDF in control now after a two day battle. Hamas lie where they fell. Only now, the extremes of their barbarity becoming apparent. 700 plus civilians lived here. How many were killed? Still unclear how they died. Brutally apparent. Some decapitated. They say kill babies in the front of their parents and kids. The parents. They killed parents. And we found babies between the dogs and the. And the family that killed before him. They cut the head of the people. Each body bag, silent sentinel to the intelligence failure that allowed Kafr AZA and other communities near Gaza to be overrun. And motivation for troops, too. We wait to the switch to to switch ourselves from the defense to the attack. Because, you know, we defense our people and still now we call it. And when you say you're going to attack, will you be going into Gaza? So if we can see it here, look, it's you know, I look to the next hundred yard, you take care of the next hundred yards next until they are the fight fighters, the next hundred yards, and then look forward, forward to a possible showdown with Hamas. How and when? Still to be determined. And that's really where I think these troops find themselves at the moment. They're waiting for that political decision. The sense with them today was that they were sort of there was a sort of a pause, but not a pause where you sit back and rest, but a pause where you were. You change posture and begin to lean forward. And you get that sense for them. They're really waiting to get the political direction of what they need to do. They know that if they go into Gaza, that this will be a very bloody fight, a very dangerous fight for them, because they'll be fighting and streets and small streets and civilian neighborhoods where they're the enemy, where Hamas, Islamic Jihad, know the terrain, where the population is against them, but also an environment where their rules of engagement are to avoid civilian casualties. Yet, and in an environment like that in Gaza, civilian casualties, as we've seen in the past, do and will happen. So all of this stands in front of Israel, stands in front of the prime minister right now and most particularly stands in front of those troops we were with today, Aaron. All right, Nic, thank you very much. And Major Ben Wall Houses and spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces for the IDF. And I very much appreciate your time, Major, on the back of this reporting. And here we are tonight. Hamas obviously has always been a brutal organization. Now, though, these reports we're seeing beheadings by ISIS like cruelty babies. Have you seen a shift in their tactics? Oh, Hamas has always been an individual terrorist organization, and it's openly stated its explicit aim to kill all the Jews and all the Israelis that it can. So in terms of who it is as an organization, as an organization, that's nothing new. But surely the extent and the barbaric nature of these attacks is something that we haven't seen before. And as your journalists saw today, as our forces go through the south and clear house by house, making sure there is no terrorist presence left. We're starting to hear those stories. We're starting to find those corpses that were brutally mutilated, entire communities massacred. And yet, as you say, this is something that we haven't seen before. Major, there's the strikes coming from Gaza. I also understand there was a clash between IDF soldiers and Hamas militants inside Israel. In the north, meantime, three rockets were seen launched from Syrian territory, according to the IDF just tonight. Rockets were launched from Lebanon earlier. Where does security of Israeli land stand at this hour? Yes, this is an extremely complex security situation. We are continuing intense fighting in the south with the aim of stopping Hamas's attacks and making sure they can't carry these kinds of attacks. That, again, thousands of rockets are still being fired into Israeli cities indiscriminately. And at the same time, as you say, on our northern border and on our eastern border, we have attacks, rocket, anti-tank fire, rocket fire from Lebanon. In Syria, we have called up over 300,000 reserve soldiers who have left their families and are deployed on all of their borders. And in the north, we're watching very carefully and making sure that the message is clear that no one should join in the fight. Reuters is reporting, Major, that for months leading up to the attack, Hamas misled Israel to believe that it didn't want to fight. I didn't want a confrontation. And the report from Reuters cites a source close to Hamas saying that the organization actually even went so far as to construct a mock Israeli town, a settlement in Gaza where they practiced a military landing. They did all these things. They trained to storm it. Can you confirm any of this? Well, Hamas's intentions have always been clear. The fact that it makes a mock Israeli town to invade shows that Hamas's war is a war against civilians. Hundreds of terrorists streaming across the border and massacring women and children and elderly is a war against civilians taking civilians, entire families into Gaza, abducting them. That's a war against civilians. And at the same time, they're using their own civilians as human shields, placing them military targets inside homes, mosques, hospitals, all in an effort to use their civilian population as shields. So in terms of any sort of a mock, settlement that they may have created, do you now know where that is or what they were doing? And you do now have the intelligence to sort of look at how this actually was trained for an accomplished. Well, we're looking forward at the moment. Our immediate priority is to stop Hamas's attacks. Their rocket attacks indiscriminately into our cities are continuing, as your viewers are seeing right now. Attempted attacks by land, by air from Gaza and our immediate priority is to protect our civilian population from further attacks. All right, Major, I appreciate your time and thank you very much. Of course. Obviously, it is past two in the morning. So another another late or all night for you. Thank you very much, sir.
</doc>