<video_id>m-HUwFLX6bo</video_id>
<video_title>Israel targets Hezbollah chief in Beirut strike</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israel targets Hezbollah chief in Beirut strike.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240730</publish_date>

<doc>
I want to go to Jeremy Diamond is standing by in Jaffa in Israel. Our CNN military analyst Cedric Layton, and our global affairs correspondent, Matthew Chance. Jeremy, let me go to you first, because we do have the statement from the IDF. basically saying they they are responsible. They carried out what they called a targeted strike. they will look they were attacking, I think, a number, well, part of me talking to strike in Beirut on a commander, part of me of commander responsible for the murder of the children in my some it says at the moment there are no changes in the homefront. Command defensive guidelines. What does that mean, Jeremy? Well, effectively, the home front guidelines or the guidelines issued to civilians in Israel to tell them effectively what the risk level is at this moment in terms of, military action, it's to tell them whether to cancel large gatherings, to not go to school. to be within reach of a bomb shelter at all times. And in this case, the Israeli military has decided not to make any changes to those guidelines, which indicates, at least for the moment, that they don't anticipate that this will immediately escalate any further than it already has. But make no mistake, that possibility is certainly in the air tonight. As we have seen, this very significant Israeli strike hit the southern suburbs of the Lebanese capital, Deir, which is notable in and of itself for the location given its proximity to Beirut. But also in addition to that, it is the fact that they are targeting a senior commander in that area. they say that this commander, who they have not named in this statement, was responsible for this rocket attack that killed 12 children, in the, Israel, controlled, Golan Heights in the Syrian Druze community of marginal Shams. It has been clear since this weekend when that rocket attack took place, when we saw the number of civilians killed, the fact that these were all children who were killed as well, it became immediately clear that there was a possibility of escalation. And since then, we have heard clear statements from Israeli officials vowing that there would be a severe response, vowing that Hezbollah would have a price to pay, even as Hezbollah, of course, denied responsibility for this attack. and so now we have finally seen what shape that response has taken as the Israeli military, in just the last couple of hours, carried out this strike and then very quickly confirmed it, making clear that they wanted to send a message that, as the Israeli defense minister says tonight, a red line was crossed by Hezbollah in this rocket attack over the weekend. And an Israeli response was narrative. Thanks very much, Jeremy Diamond. Let's go to Cedric Layton, who is with us? And Cedric, I think it's fair to say that many were expecting a response. all expecting some sort of retaliation for the Golan Heights attack. What do you make of what we are learning? This sound? The IDF saying it was a targeted strike. yes. I think that is really the key thing here. And if it turns out to be true that this was a drone strike instead of a strike with a manned aircraft, that also goes to show that the Israelis were looking for a very precise action, they wanted to do this with a minimum of collateral damage and that, you think commensurate with some of the pressure that the Israelis have probably received, from the US as well as other Western nations, to minimize civilian casualties in any type of, response that they would make. I think everybody expected them to make this kind of a, an effort, this kind of a response in response to what happened in Marshall Trump. but the other thing that they had to consider was the fact that they needed to also minimize the possibility of civilian casualties. Yeah. Look, this is a very dangerous moment, right? This is not a war zone. This is happening as we showed our viewers streets of Beirut. And that is absolutely terrifying. We've heard in the last few minutes from the Lebanese state media that the strike was conducted by road, by the dirt, by drone that fired three missiles. If we played the video that we played at the top of the show, my producers play that out. From what we see in this video, once we play it out. Cedric, I wonder whether you could tell us in terms of of the impact we're hearing one casualty here. What more can you can you dissect from from the video that we have seen so far, the images here we go to playing right now. Right. So when you look at the destruction in this street, this is commensurate with a fairly low powered explosive. you know, something that on the order of perhaps the 250 pound bomb or less, I and I say more or less with emphasis in the case, because it would be far greater destruction to the buildings if a standard form I would be used would have been used in this particular case. And so, you see, you know, some of the you know, obviously there's building debris middle of the street there, some windows appear to be a appear to have blown out, and there does seem to be, you know, a case where they looked at a very specific location within a building, to go after a very specific individual target. So that's what it looks like to me at the present time. And I see these are live pictures right now. and it does seem as if they're basically in there mopping up operation, but they don't expect, any secondary or tertiary attacks after this one. At least that's what it looks like right now. So do stay with us. Let me go to our Matthew, Chance and Matthew. We look at we are in unknown territory. Yes. Israel's claim responsibility as we heard from our Jeremy Diamond there. But Hezbollah had said previously, Matthew, that would meet escalation with escalation. Right. speak to the significance of this moment of the fear, of course, that this could widen out the wider conflict. Yeah, it's I think I think the question here is, is this the start of a broader Israeli campaign in southern Lebanon, or will it provoke a broader campaign in southern Lebanon? Or is it just, you know, a very limited action, that was undertaken in response to those dreadful killings in Mashal Shams in the in the Golan Heights at the weekend in which those 12 children, teenagers as well, were, were killed and, and, you know, the whole region is on a knife edge trying to grapple with that question. I can certainly tell you, and I've been up to northern Israel several times since the October 7th attacks. There's a great deal of political pressure inside northern Israel, inside Israel and in northern Israel, particularly to strike at Hezbollah, to push that that group back from the northern border of Israel, it's under northern Israel is under constant, not just a constant threat of missile attack, but actually under constant missile attack as well. and it's led to whole communities being evacuated. They're not able to go back into their homes. That fright, fearful that what happened in, in, you know, from Gaza in southern Israel could happen to them in northern Israel as well. So there's enormous amount of political pressure the government of Benjamin Netanyahu is feeling to strike at Hezbollah. But that has to be balanced with the fact that Israel is exhausted. It is already engaged in a bitter conflict in the south of the country, inside Gaza, and just doesn't have the energy potentially, it might have the means, but doesn't actually have the energy and the political will to go full on into Lebanon right now, not whether it escalates into something else. It has a momentum of its own. We will see. But that is the the issue we're confronted with tonight. Yeah, indeed. The concern is how does Hezbollah retaliate if it indeed does retaliate to this? as we have seen tit for tat before, let me go to Ben Wedeman, who is in Beirut for us. Ben, just give us a sense of what you are learning. We're looking at these images out of Beirut. Streets are part of an ambulance. We've seen some of the first scenes. What are you learning? from authorities there and importantly, about casualties at this stage. Well, this strike happened just before 8:00 in the evening, local time. this is a time when the streets are crowded with people and the neighborhood where it happened. Tarek. And in southern part of Beirut is a very crowded, populous neighborhood. Now, that is where many of Hezbollah's leaders operate out of. But that's also where hundreds of thousands of civilians, live as well. Now we're hearing from the National News Agency, the official Lebanese news agency, that at least one woman was killed and several others injured. There are reports in the local media that, hospitals in the area are calling for donations, of blood as well. also, I'm hearing that people are lining up, queuing up at petrol stations to fill because, this is an event that, although it comes in a surprise in terms of the time and the place, the fact that it happened was no surprise at all, because it was widely expected that there would be some sort of Israeli response to the attack on the champs in the Israeli occupied Syrian Golan Heights that left 12, people dead. but, the other day, I was speaking with the foreign minister of Lebanon, who told me that they, the Lebanese government had received assurances through diplomatic channels, that Beirut, the Beirut airport and specifically the southern suburbs of Beirut would not be struck. And that was their interpreter of those assurances. So clearly, those assurances, don't amount in much to much at this point. Now, we know that, Secretary General of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah, has said time and time again that striking Beirut is crossing a red line. However, on the 2nd of January of this year, Israel did launch a strike that killed a senior Hamas leader, also roughly in that area, as well. So we'll have to simply wait and see how Hezbollah is going to respond. But I know that organization well, they are not going to go quietly into the night. There will be some sort of response, from Hezbollah. They have said they will meet escalation with escalation.
</doc>