<video_id>SkEwZOBeU3w</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli troops kill 8-year-old boy during raid of West Bank refugee camp</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli troops kill 8-year-old boy during raid of West Bank refugee camp.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231130</publish_date>

<doc>
Israeli forces with bulldozers and jeeps entered the camp under the cover of darkness. This has become a routine and this is the usual aftermath. Wreckage and rubble, asphalt roa plowed down to the dirt Once the damage is repaired, there's another raid. And it's the same thing all over For almost two years, a low inte war has been raging in the occupied West Bank. Residents here in Janine's refug say that there have been more than 30 Israeli military incursi ins since August of this year. The camp is home to militants who Israel has accused of involvement in attacks on Isr But here, those whom Israel call terrorists are seen as fighters against a decades long military occupation, with the aim Couscous is not a f He works for the local governmen He says the kids are. But last week, Israeli soldiers took over his home during yet another raid As he shows me around the remains of what was a family's light crunch under our shoes. I know brutal is how Wadiya sums the soldier's behavior. Scars of battles past pockmarked the camp's walls, debris on almost every co I have some images. Um, Sammy shows me spent cartrid on the floor of her house saying Israeli troops used this  to fire down into the street. I had to do it, but they took my husband, bound his hands and pushed him outside in the co She says They kept him there from six in the evening until five in the morning. Eventually, the soldiers let him but took away her recently marri After ransacking his bedroom, searching for weapons. 18 year old Mahmoud Abdulhadi was shot last Thursday Shot through his bedroom window. His mother holding a bloodstaine Recounts how Israeli soldiers wouldn't allow medics to taken to hospital So I was re I was sure we were going to the  she says. We went downstairs. A second officer was there and m the medics put the stretcher dow Mahmoud bled to death in front of his home. Tuesday night, Israeli forces raided the camp again. Sparking gun battles with milita And in the process, Israeli troops killed at least four people, including this eight year old bo And then they left And Ben Wedeman joins us now. And Ben, as we've been reporting there had been reporting beginning of this year on the sh the violence that we have been s in the West Bank pre-dates the October the sevent I mean, we've seen over 260 Palestinians, it seems, detained in the West B since Friday. 24th, and that is according to the Pal society here prison society. Why are more Palestinians being  Well, basically, I mean, it really since the 7th of October, you've seen this great upsurge. Now, of course, I think part of it is the Israelis are nervous about the situation in the West  Let's keep in mind that actually the situation around Gaza, except for a flare up back in May of this year, has been rarel But what we've seen is increasin the Israeli government has been focusing on the West Ba We have no high extremist minist in the Israeli government who are pushing the idea of expanding settlement empowering the settlers more, ha weapons to them. So certainly what we're seeing is that there's more unrest among the Palestinians who aren't happy with this. But more than that, I think the  see the situation in the West Ba and they're trying to sort of ke that in the natives under control, so to But increasingly, as they watch what's going on in Gaza and they have been experience experiencing in recent years this upsurge in settlement activ and settler violence, keeping in how many have been killed since the beginning of the war i are almost 250. It's a powder keg. And even American officials have warned the Israelis that they have to bring the settlers under control. And perhaps the conditions for m given to Israel have to be incre because of the trouble that can  by the current Israeli policy in the West Bank. You say it's a powder keg. I mean, you know, the region, you know the West Bank better th most journalists, I think it's fair to say. So I'm keen to get your sense, B what the mood is like. We are seeing we've seen the past several days Palestinians being released, a j jubilant celebration. Someone can't even celebrate out Of course, that's what we've been hearing But if this truce is not extende and we go back to Israel trying to break the back of Hama we've heard from the IDF in the last few moments saying they're preparing ourselv for continuing of this fighting. If that continues, what what could change in the West Ba Well, I think that if the fighting resumes in Gaza and we see the kind of bloodshed the sort of mass killing of civilians in Gaza, the situation could become even more unstable. Keep in mind that it's not the Palestinian Au backed by the United States and the European Union and led by Mahmoud Abbas that's winning the freedom of these Palestinian prisoners and the detainees. It's Hamas and by and large, the Palestinian Authority is loo by most Palestinians in the West as corrupt and incapable and powerless when it comes to d with the Israelis. That's why, for instance, Jenin, which technically is under Pales Authority, control every time they go into that cit they drive right in. The Palestinian police, who I saw yesterday when I went to Jenin, disappear. They put up no resistance. So the the structure, the political str that was established by the Oslo Accords, sponsored by the United States, establishing the Palestinian Aut that's eroding as the war in Gaza continues. If it continues, and it probably will continue in the coming days. So politically, the head at the top of the Palestinian Authority is not particularly stable.
</doc>