<video_id>0oM8p96ZFNg</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli father describes wife and daughters being taken by Hamas as 'hell'</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli father describes wife and daughters being taken by Hamas as 'hell'.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231017</publish_date>

<doc>
One of the family members desperately holding out hope that some of these hostages will be rescued is the only Asher. He is missing his wife and his two young daughters. They were taken while visiting his mother in law. Near Gaza. Our viewers will remember that we first spoke to Yoni on the day of the Hamas attack, just hours after he first saw his family in this viral video. Online. You can see a gunman placing a cloth over his wife's head. His mother in law and his two daughters are huddled in the back of the truck after seeing this video. Yoni tried to track his wife's location. It said her phone was in Gaza. We have been checking in with Yoni ever since then. And I was able to meet him in person over the weekend. Traveling to his home north of Tel Aviv. Here is our conversation Well, Yoni, the chance to see each other and see you in person How are you doing now? Well, eight days since my wife and two daughters got kidnaped I am realizing that I got to see the gates of hell. I got to see how Hill looks like I don't know if there are any more tears left in me, but it became real. I became it became clear to me that I saw her. I saw what her looks like. And, you know, it's not only the phone call that I got from my wife. 10 a.m. telling me that they're entering the house shooting and that we got disconnected. And it's not even the video. 9 seconds long video, which I saw my wife getting taken with my two daughters, recognizing them just like that. After a few hours of nerve wracking time, which I tried to get information, the hell was the images. I didn't watch them. I heard. I understand very quickly that when I saw that when I knew that there is a possibility that I get held by such. I don't know how to call that they are held by them. It was even worse than the video because you think about what I mean in every moment. I don't know what they're going I only saw them kidnaped. I only saw them get in on some kind of vehicle. You can see from that video, it's really familiar. My wife getting covered by her head, Alawite, were screaming all around that. That was the image I saw last Saturday, seven of October. And I tell you, I don't know if I can explain yet. But like I said, I don't know if you ever thought about it, but sometimes we think, what is the apocalypse scenario or what is that what hell looks like when I saw the images there in every minute is forever. Well, you're living it forever. You mean what have you heard about them? Is the government are they updating you? Are they telling you anything about what they're doing or where they think they may be? I mean, even things like are they even able to tell you whether they think they're there together? you know, there is the channel that the authorities are in contact with me but as you know, these things are not simple. They're sometimes can be extremely complicated. I'm not diplomacy. I have no diplomacy or security training. I have no understanding in this kind of matters. It's not my area. But they are in touch with me. And I only know what I knew last Saturday. That's the only thing I knew. And I live here in uncertainty and it's I'm hanging between the earth and heaven. And I move in between the desperation sometimes hope. But I don't know I know the time is critical. I know they they need medicine. I know they have babies. My little baby daughter of five is not yet three. In January, she will be three the same. In the same month, the same month, January. Also, my older brothers will be five. They are celebrated together in the same month. They are good friends. They love each other. I hope that they are alive and they are well. And I hope that they are take care of each other with their mother. What happened to this house? How it became a media and an office to save them. I just want them to be here I can start to explain to you what smart, beautiful girls they are. I can't even start We sit here. I think that you sit here. This is you have so many visions of when you and Jerome may be in the kitchen and they were here where they were playing. This is their special area. But they know area. I don't allow myself to know I have. I can't profound in this visions. I want to remember the sound of their voice, the smell of their hair. But it's hard. I know that I have to be strong for them. I can't look at a video of them. Not even one. I know that many videos were published by us. Me and my family and friends who are helping me I didn't watch single one. Go through your phone and watch. I can't. You asked me about the last few days. Something. It was something that the body and the mind is very hard to. I don't have any psychology training also, but I guess it's something that takes the spirit out of the body of something because there is a I can't I can't even process You wanted us to look at their shoes why their shoes, Yoni? How, you know, they are currently girls. They they like shoes. I see pink. They like are willing to wear only dresses. So it's you need to convince them to wear a shirt and pants and dresses. Yes, they like they like girly stuff making us food in this toy kitchen, bringing me that food. Thank you. I can talk with you about it right now with I guess something happened to the mind and spirit in situation like this. And for me anyway, and your wife, you must be thinking of her and how strong she is. She is. She's. You know, since I have two little daughters, I learned that what is the power of of a woman? What is how strong a woman is a lot more than us men. she sacrificed so much. It took us three years to bring to the world. Was her older my first born? Yes. Women are strong. And my wife particularly, it's a very strong person. But the situation is impossible and the uncertainties are there are there things you think about in your head or things you you would say to her can only imagine? There are things now that you say, ah, if I if I could say them or if I could talk to her now, if I could have said you said anything you would you want to say to her right now that I'm sorry I'm sorry sorry that I never not always appreciated her and I and I did. But, you know, in these moments, you think about all the times before you were on the phone or busy, the girls would say, to me, Daddy, come sit with the the wife, my wife, the wrong um, I just wanted her to know that I love her with all of my heart. And I'm sorry and you know, the worst thing as a father or have three girls, wife, two little babies is killed is this give life. Why are you not coming to get us? I thinking about them. Sit there. Maybe if they're alive and thinking why is that is not coming and it can. I want to I pray that they will forgive me, but they were recognized. You know, for children, it's a day. It's like a month for us. And those. Oh, they will remember you I want I will be in their mind like they are in my mind. I have to be strong for them.
</doc>