<video_id>s5H3HFGlGcg</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli defense minister warns of 'a long war'</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli defense minister warns of 'a long war'.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231016</publish_date>

<doc>
We're seeing the U.S. Secretary of state, Anthony Blinken, meeting with the Israeli defense minister. Let's listen to hear if they say anything Mr. Secretary, thank you for coming. Mr.. We always know new that the United States is a good deal but today the people in Israel and in the world see it in their own eyes. You are here for the second time in this week. Senior officials of America are here every day. And no American flag is on. There is sailing on board in the Mediterranean. And we know what is the meaning. So let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, this will be a long walk. The price will be high, but we are going to win for Israel, for the Jewish people, and for the values that both countries believe in. With your permission, you will join Hebrew. Please enough. Normal. Now, think of it. The most common denominator echoed by farmer Shinya Yamanaka Work walk the second day in the dusty dish. This man was me. That's the Israeli defense minister you have got. He is speaking in Hebrew now after he greeted the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken. They are in Tel Aviv right now where they have been meeting. This is Blinken's second time in Israel in just a few days. He left Israel and then did this whirlwind diplomatic mission to many countries in the region. But now back in Tel Aviv, you have got the defense minister also mentioned the US military presence not far off the coast. There is already one carrier group, the USS Gerald Ford, and now a second carrier group, the US, Dwight Eisenhower, will be headed to that region. I'm talking here until they start speaking English. Let's listen again. You know, our deep commitment to Israel's right and indeed its obligation to defend itself and to defend its people. And in that you have always had the support of the United States. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Secretary, word All right. All business from the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, meeting with the Israeli Defense Minister, Yoav Gallant. Did not take questions, did not say much of anything. Other than the U.S. is firmly behind Israel as it prepares seemingly for a ground operation into Gaza. Let's get straight to Israel, where CNN's Nic Robertson is. Nic, what is the latest on the ground at this hour? It's been a relatively quiet day in terms of rocket strikes, missiles, artillery going into Gaza and not many missiles coming out of Gaza either. It creates the impression that they're not a pause, but at least ammunition in the in the amount of military activity to perhaps give some space to some of the political discussions. I said that and you heard the explosion behind me. Yes. The afternoon has become increasingly punctuated by heavy explosions. That does sound like a missile strike landing on Gaza there. And perhaps as we go into darkness, I think we're beginning to see perhaps a little uptick in the tempo here. This is northern Gaza right behind me that we know that in northern Gaza late today, the IDF said that they hit a Hamas commander appearing to destroy a building, taking him out, if you will. And along this border area, we're seeing that continued buildup and preparations among the IDF in readiness for the possibility of a ground incursion. Now, I don't know how this may affect the military operations, but there was a very, very heavy rainstorm passed through here earlier today. But from a UN and humanitarian perspective, inside Gaza, rainstorms are the last thing they need. Half a million people understood to have left northern Gaza. There isn't enough shelter for them in the south of Gaza. Isn't enough food, isn't enough water. So real concerns if the weather does deteriorate more and this more rainstorms, a lot of civilians inside Gaza not only trying to dodge missiles, but will also be caught out in some atrocious conditions. Just a absolutely terrible situation and of course, as soon as you say that it's been quiet, we heard the airstrikes behind you as darkness has fallen where you are on the border, near the border between Israel and Gaza. Thank you so much for that report, Nic. And I want to now go to Jerusalem and CNN's Jeremy Diamond. Jeremy, I know you have been following and doing reporting on what the secretary of state, Antony Blinken, has been doing, not just in Israel where you are. He is now back, but also the frantic shuttle diplomacy. He has been engaged in across the region Yeah. Then between Secretary of State Tony Blinken's visit to Israel last week and his visit today, he visited about a half dozen Arab countries in the region, countries ranging from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Jordan, Egypt, Qatar, etc. And all of this in a shuttle diplomacy effort focused on several key lines, the first of which is the humanitarian situation inside of Gaza, trying to get the flow of aid back into to Gaza as well as allowing Americans to be able to leave through the Rafah crossing and go into Egypt. In addition to that, the secretary of state also focused on trying to prevent this Hamas Israel conflict from blowing up into a wider war. And then, of course, there is the issue of those 199 hostages being held inside of Gaza, of which at least 20 of whom are believed to be American citizens. Now, we know that the secretary of state today met with the Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as the Israeli presidents and the defense minister. We just saw the secretary of state with the defense minister, where Blinken effectively reiterated the US commitment to the state of Israel to its right. And what he said is also its obligation to defend itself. But one thing became very clear in this visit today is that while Blinken is trying to address the humanitarian situation, trying to prevent this war from becoming a regional situation, he is not there to prevent war from a growing bigger between Israel and Hamas. And that was evidenced when you heard the Israeli defense minister, Galen's, saying that this will be a long war and also warning that the price for Israel to defend itself will indeed be high. There is no sign as of yet that the U.S. is backing off from this kind of no daylight position with Israel. They are fully supporting Israel in its plans to widen this military campaign against Hamas. What they are trying to do is to get Americans out of the Gaza Strip to get humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip, and also ideally to try and find some way of getting those American hostages who are in Gaza out of there. And out of harm's way. Dana, Jeremy, thank you so much for that reporting. And today, a site the world has been waiting to see. CNN spotted five U.N. fuel trucks entered Gaza. It is the first sign that the Rafah crossing, the one between Gaza and Egypt, is even partially open. But this is important. It remains closed to people, desperate Palestinian civilians trapped in a war zone As the Egyptians, they have to be willing to have that gate open and have a flow of human traffic get through that. And so we're in discussions with them about what that could look like and how that can be managed in a way that that protects Egypt's national security interests as well.
</doc>