<video_id>9Pra0XtrEPA</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli parents describe how they found out their son was kidnapped by Hamas</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli parents describe how they found out their son was kidnapped by Hamas.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231021</publish_date>

<doc>
As there is breaking news tonight about two hostages being freed from Hamas by Hamas. Other families are watching this news tonight with hope. It has been two weeks since Omer Shem Tov said parents have seen their son, a 21 year old, which was with his friends at the Noah Music Festival when Hamas attacked on that day. Amir was eventually handcuffed, placed in the back of a pickup truck and kidnaped. That morning was the last time that Amir's family heard his voice, as he called them frantic and terrified. Phone. Phone call to another phone call. You sound much more panicked, much more hysteric. And even then, one of the phone calls say that they are running away. They are carrying a lot of friends, but they start to run. So they he lost some of his friends. And while he was running, he's saying that they are shooting all over. And he say that even see some dying people. And I love you. I love you from you must have been so panicked to hear your 21 year old son telling you it's not just rockets, it's there's gunfire. People are running and being killed. Yes. Yes. It was like we could understand from his voice that this is something that we could not understand, even what he's experienced over there. He told me he was panicked. He was afraid. He said that they got into the car and they're trying to escape from there. My daughter and I told him, send us a live location. He said, Alive location. And then the phone was stopped. And then we started to see that the the the point is moving like not in the right way, Not coming home. Not coming home at all. It's it's moving to the border. And my daughter start to cry. And she told us, listen, it's it's not the way. It's not the way. And I called him to say, Olmert, It's not the way. And he didn't answer. The phone was ringing and he didn't answer. And then we saw that he's getting into who was behind the lot of it. It was the border. And then in the evening, we got the video that was published by the Hamas, that Omer, who is he's a hostage, is over there. We saw we saw Omer and Croft in a in the back of pickup. We think he's handcuffed in a truck. Yes. With his friend. There were alive there was no blood or something on his glove. And and that's was the only the only single signal that we got for him. And it's been almost two weeks. Tomorrow have been two weeks. I mean, what have these two weeks been like for both of you? We didn't. We are not sleeping. We. We are not eating. We all of of of the things that we are doing now. It's just to to to shout all over the world our pain that no mother in, in all over the world needs to feel like mother and father needs to feel like we are feeling. Now imagine that your son is going to a party and the next day people murders, kidnaped him and, you know, know if he's eating, sleeping, if they are beating him. The basic thing of the mother is to protect, to protect her son. And I cannot protect my son. it's driving me crazy. it's I'm talking not only for myself, I'm talking for a lot of families. You must understand that people were in the safe place. Their whole their were sitting, eating breakfast. Some of them was sleeping. And then these terrorists came in through their house and murder and took them from their house, from the place that it's the most safe place. And they took him babies, children, teenage mothers, fathers, grandmothers. And he's he's 21, but he's your baby. I mean, what is what's he like? What's his personality? What is he you were saying he kisses you three times on the cheeks all the time. Are you the amazing guy? He's a party guy. He's by himself. He's a deejay and he likes very much all these kind of festival music festivals. So that's Omer. Very, very happy guy. Very happy, very funny, funny, very cool. He marries. So cute. We call him Sunshine because they like the sunshine. Everybody wants to be next next to him. The last time Amir's family saw him was at Shabbat dinner two weeks ago. He was there like he always is. He's always the life of the party. As they talked about his big personality. And that night was the night that he went to the Nova Music Festival. The next time his parents heard from him was in a series of panicked phone calls. The next day, when they realized that the festival he was at was being attacked by Hamas. The ceremony tonight in this huge table that you see is for all the families whose loved ones are being held hostage tonight, whose loved ones won't be at Shabbat dinner tonight. And Amir's family is hoping that he will be back at their Shabbat dinner at their table very soon. Can you show me the video that you were showing me a moment ago? Yes. I'm losing. And that was a picture of your family? How many times have you watched that video? Oh, my God. I saw it, you know, at the beginning when Dana posted. I saw it, I don't know, maybe 100 times. And each time I'm crying and I get very emotional. Even now, when I see that, you get very emotional. And also the song say you're going to get out from this. Don't be afraid from here. Yes, you are going to get out of it. If you could talk to him right now, what would you say to him? Come back. Enough's enough. You did enough trouble. Just come. Come back. that I love him. That I miss him. That I want every. Every day when he is going, he is coming to me, is telling. He's hugging me, telling me, Mom, I love you. He's kissing me three times. And he's going. So I hug the and that's what I want very much to walk him and smiling for relief to hear what the IDF said today that they do believe most of the hostages are still alive. You know, for us, it's a it's give me some light. But until we don't see them, I want to say something about that. My son have asthma. He cannot breathe. Well. And I also every day when I'm come, when I'm waking up and I don't have I cannot breathe. I'm taking my Valium and I'm thinking about all that is there. And you've done this. He's whatever you call it. And it's the minimum thing that the monetary thing that they need to do. First of all, it's it's unbelievable my to be there for my own needs at that moment. Has he ever left one of his pylons and all of this stuff again, or the emotion that it's all for? That is what the and I want to thank Amir's parents, Shelly and Marcus. They were so gracious with their time today, despite being so clearly filled with grief for their missing son. These families are devastated. Their lives have been completely uprooted. Amir stood at one point, had a small smile on his face when he told me he can't wait for his son to come home so you can tell him to go and clean his messy room. My heart is heavy for them tonight and for every family who had an empty seat at their Shabbat dinner table.
</doc>