<video_id>8ucI0Zl1mpk</video_id>
<video_title>Israeli spokesperson reveals what's needed to extend Israel-Hamas truce</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Israeli spokesperson reveals what's needed to extend Israel-Hamas truce.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231127</publish_date>

<doc>
Can you tell us the details as you understand it, inside the Israeli government of this extended truce? So I think we we we have to say the following. Before we talk about extending the deal, we have to implement the current deal. And we're waiting for the last batch of hostages of women and children who are supposed to be released this evening. And until they are safely on Israeli soil, we can say that the four day agreement for the 50 hostages has been implemented. Having said that, my prime minister spoke publicly last night and he was His remarks were reported on CNN. He said that we are open to the extension of this humanitarian pause and for as your reporter said quite correctly, for every ten hostages released, we are willing to give an extension of another day. And if Hamas will release Israeli hostages as agreed, we will extend. That's that's the bottom line. So that means if it's going to be extended for two more days and I understand what you're saying about what's going to happen today, and I'll get to that in a minute. But just staying on this deal that was just announced inside Qatar in the White House, is also confirming if it is one day, one more day of a truce for every ten hostages, if it's two days. Presumably that means Hamas has agreed to 20 additional hostages after today. That's correct. Once again, the parameters were set and these were negotiated with the help of President Biden. And we thank him for being putting his effort and his office behind behind these arrangements. We wouldn't have I don't think we would have reached the deal without his input. And yes, it was agreed. Every extra day we get ten hostages and we will stand by that. Were they so far? They have only been women and children. And that was the. And those are the parameters of this initial deal. What about the extension? Will men be included there? My understanding is that there's still enough women and children in Gaza held by Hamas that can fill that for the next 20 years. Hamas is responsible for all the hostages. They are, unfortunately, but they are the government there in Gaza. They control the situation on the ground. The cessation of fighting has given them the opportunity to to get defined every last hostage. And we're expecting tonight to see the final group of women and children. And hopefully in the coming days, we'll see more Can you just expand on what you just said and how you started in this interview talking about the current situation? What is the holdup? You said that there is a holdup. What is the sticking point when it comes to the group of women and children expected to be released today? As you know, this is the fourth and final release in the framework of the four days. But as you know, I think it was only last night that they actually got out on time on the first day and the second day, there were delays, there were last minute crises. There were all sorts of problems. And the truth is, we have to remember who we're dealing with. We're dealing with a ruthless, fanatical terrorist organization, Hamas. And it's always like pulling teeth. I mean, it's difficult It's never easy. And that's why I urge let's wait to see what happens tonight that we see our people, the released hostages safely on Israeli soil. I mean, last night we had 13 Israeli women and children released. The youngest was that four year old American Israeli Abigail Dunn. Right. She was kidnaped when she was three. So you have to ask, what sort of people kidnap 33 year olds? And I think that tells you everything you need to know about Hamas and explains why it's so difficult. These people are ruthless. And if they think there's an advantage in them for for perpetuating the suffering of these innocent civilians and their families in Israel, they will do so if they think it's in their interest. Well, she was three and her parents were also according to President Biden, murdered brutally right in front of movie on October 7th. So I completely take your point. Having said that, the they are the organization that you have to deal with because they are the ones who have these women and children. So given that reality by that unfortunate reality that you are dealing with, what is the status as far as you know, of those who are supposed to come out today? So, once again, we have received some some good signals, but until they are on Israeli soil, it's not done We can't celebrate. And it's the same for the families who've been waiting for these people for over 50 days now. And once again, once they are on Israeli soil, we can say it has been done. But we're all we've got to be cautious with Hamas. You've got to be cautious. You need nerves of steel when you're dealing with these sort of people. Marc, I want to ask about one of the sticking points over the weekend, which was that there was a child released without her mother, the Rotem family, HeLa was released, and her mother was not Raya. What is your understanding at this point of why that is, particularly now, since you have been able to officials in your government have been able to speak with the daughter about the last time she saw her mother? Can you give any more information about that? I can only say the following, Donna. And to release a young child without a parent, that is the most inhumane thing to release a daughter and for the mother to stay in captivity. Once again, that is a nother manifestation of what we're dealing with, that these people are heartless, these people are depraved. These people lack any sense of common decency. And that is our enemy. And when the fight against Hamas is resumed, I want people to remember that Israel is fighting a ruthless and despicable terrorist organization. And when we defeat them, as we will, that won't just be good for Israel. Our people deserve to live in safety. And in security. And it's not to fear of terrorists crossing the border in the middle of the night and butchering their children. But the people of Gaza also deserve better. Hamas has been ruling Gaza for six years. And what have they brought? The people of Gaza just suffering and pain and poverty. And everyone in this region will be better off without Hamas Just, if I may. You described the the unfortunate human situation here. Terrible human, barbaric human situation. But what about the why are you concerned that her mother and others have been separated from Hamas and are now in captivity by other groups inside Gaza? Look, from Israel's perspective, Hamas can't subcontract out any responsibility. They are responsible. And the reason for the pause was not to give any excuses because, you know, if they were if Israel continued attacking, they could say, well, we couldn't get out of our bunker to find the hostages. They've had now four days of pause. They're the guys that control the Gaza Strip. Unfortunately, I wish it wasn't the case. It soon won't be the case. But at the moment, they're in charge and they are responsible Mark Regev, thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Thanks for having me. And, Wolf, I want to bring you back in now. Your reaction knowing not only Mark Regev, but knowing the situation as well as you do to the news there. I mean, I will say, obviously, he confirmed this deal, but at the end, he talked about when the military operation resumes, not if when Well, the Israeli Defense Ministry, the Israeli the IDF, the Israeli political leadership, the war cabinet, they are all basically on the same page saying that after they obviously want to get all the Israeli hostages, all the hostages out of Gaza and back to Israel, that's obviously a top priority, if not the top priority. But they're also saying that even after that, they're going to continue their struggle against Hamas. They don't want Hamas to be in charge of Gaza because they fear that what happened on October 7th could happen again. So they're going to continue to go after Hamas and resume their military activity whether air strikes or ground assault. They're making it abundantly clear that is not going to stop it stopping as long as this temporary truce and they call it a truce a pause. They're not calling it a cease fire as long as this is going on. They're going to pause in the Israeli military action against Hamas. But they are making it abundantly clear that is not going to pause forever. They're going to go after Hamas. And that's going to be very significant.
</doc>