
<doc>
Audie, let's talk a little bit more about the community in Michigan. That as you talked a little bit about this yesterday about just the sheer emotion that is driving this. And just to kinda give people a sense, in Michigan, David referenced the 10,000 votes that separated Hillary Clinton from Donald Trump when Donald Trump won Michigan, it was 150,000 votes that separated trump and Biden when we in the 2020 when Biden won, there are about 140,000 people who voted in that election who say that they are muslims. Now that's obviously not all air Americans are Muslim. Not all muslims are Arab American. But this is a really significant community. And to leave has been encouraging them to vote as a book block. How do you see that playing out? &gt;&gt; Well, I think that's the point of primaries, right? It's, it's, you're moment as she says, to have a bull horn and say this is the issue that [6:07:27 AM] and say this is the issue that matters to me. I'd also like to broaden this out because this is not necessarily an issue. What's going on in gaza that is affecting Arab Americans only generationally young people but democratic party view this differently. Michigan has a large student population. Michigan has, as you said, a large arab-american and even black Muslim population. These are all people who find affinity with what they see as oppression in the region and one of the reasons why I think this is an interesting test is having a test the coalition, meaning you're white blue collar labor guys, your various affinity groups, your students. This is a different picture than South Carolina. Don't you think where it was really more like, hey, remember those folks who helped us last time. Are they coming back? This is like, oh, well, what is the picture of the group of voters? To backup Biden and is this going to happen &gt;&gt; I mean, is that &gt;&gt; Too much? And I think you get a little representative in Michigan of each slice of his [6:08:29 AM] Michigan of each slice of his co yeah &gt;&gt; They're saying, look, you walk the picket lines for labor, like the mayor of Dearborn was upset when they sent campaign people instead of policy people to talk about that Middle East, they're saying, take us seriously. And I think that's maybe how we can think of it instead of just sort of like which identity group is complaining today &gt;&gt; Fair enough. Let's take a look. John Stuart actually opened the Daily Show with a monologue about gaza last night, I want to watch a little bit that good could you please be more careful with &gt;&gt; Your bombing? Go to but really good in the united States have told Israel that when we gave him all the ball bombs like you're coc, dealer coming in with an eight ball and going don't stay up all night &gt;&gt; Jonah Goldberg, we've talked a lot about where Democrats are on this and Ashley, you know, weigh in too, but there's a reason why the president has been worry is this entire time on this issue, which is that still despite the pressure from [6:09:31 AM] still despite the pressure from Progressives, a lot of the countries with them on Israel, yeah that's my problem with the way the media generally talks about the Michigan issue at all that is you know, there's nothing wrong with the squeaky wheel getting attention. That's how politics, that's up them awkward. It rks people who organized and protest get attention at the same time. It's sort of assumed that if he would just switch positions to what the sort of the receipt, it's Williams won that would solve as political problems and it would not David's right about Michigan being on the teetering point for Biden. If he went whole hog the other way, he probably lose Pennsylvania. &gt;&gt; And he might &gt;&gt; And it's not obvious to me when you look at the numbers that that switching positions would gain him more votes than would lose them even in Michigan. &gt;&gt; This all &gt;&gt; Goes to the bit and I think this is part of Audie's point, is like it's more of a generational thing that is a real threat to Biden than the Arab American and are Muslim vote and Michigan and it just goes effect that his coalition is much bigger than Donald [6:10:31 AM] is much bigger than Donald Trump's. And therefore, you going to have people on different sides of issues and the same coalition fdr had straight up klansman and communists, Jews, and blacks and his coalition and weird things happen in making us back to that it was a big tent party back then. And so I think that he's just it's not bad position where he is kind of a no-win political situation no matter what. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No the president and administrations and walk-ins incredibly fine line for months now since October, in fact. But I think the announcement that we're close to a ceasefire is a game changer, especially going into Michigan tonight and expense especially going into the state of union. So I am hearing has from the administration that they're sort of breathing a sigh of relief to some degree that there could be some pressure being led out the bow here and will. But we'll see to everyone's point tonight how this plays out. But I don't think that there's any sort of hair on fire concern because again, I think they think that this whole thing will be wrapped up and we still have eight more months. [6:11:33 AM] eight more months. &gt;&gt; Very interesting, I will say max foster earlier in the show
</doc>