<video_id>y-LXLMj8sRc</video_id>
<video_title>Jordan says ceasefire in Gaza only way to prevent region from the 'abyss of war'</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Jordan says ceasefire in Gaza only way to prevent region from the 'abyss of war'.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240807</publish_date>

<doc>
When and how will Iran strike back for Israel assassination of Hezbollah's top military chief? That question hanging over the Middle East thi US sources say Iran and its affi are preparing to respond, possibly in the coming days. Rig Diplomats from Islamic nations are meeting in an emergency session in Saudi Arabia at Iran's reques They are expected to urge restra from Tehran and condemn Israel over its suspected killing of Hamas political chief Ismail Haniya in Iran recently. Yahya Sinwar, an alleged architect of the October 7th attacks, has been tapped to replace senior. Among those working at that meeting in Jeddah, Jordan's Foreign Minister Iman Safadi has been conducting a flurry of talks to Defuze tens He stopped in Iran on Sunday, the first such visit by a top Jordanian official in 2 Simon Safadi, stepping away from that meeting  to talk to us. This is his first interview since he was in Tehran, and you  with the acting foreign minister of Iran today. So I want to get your sense of Iran's thinking at this point as the region awai what is threatened retaliation by Iran on Israel. what do you understand to be Tehran's position at this  and what are they trying to achi with this meeting? Foreign Minis good evening Becky. We are in very, very dangerous situatio in the region. following the assassination of o the head of the political bureau of Hamas, Ismail Haniyeh, tensions have risen, obviously, what we and Jordan are saying is that we, the region cannot afford further, conflict, further war, further destruction. And we must stop this escalation And the first step towards stopping the escalation is ending. Its its root cause, which is, the continued Israeli aggression on, Gaza. we have everybody has to realize that this situation is extremely dangerous. The threat of the region being dragged into, regional war is real. we do want this escalation to st We have been working very hard, to achieve that. And we are, 100%, convinced that the only the first step towards that de-escalation is stopping the aggression on Ga and Iran. Obviously, we had, discussions with the Iranian foreign ministe the Iranian president, and Bahrain few days ago, I went there at the invitation o foreign minister, to try and see what we can do, to bring the, temperature down. they, believe that they've been done a great wrong. And, they believe they have the right to respond. so what we're trying to do is, a to create, the conditions, in wh everybody will see value in de-escalating. And that would be ending the agg getting a permanent cease fire,  urging everybody to act responsibly and prevent, the whole region from falling into the abyss. well, while the US secretary of State  that the cease fire talks are in their final stages, sourc that I talked to around this reg suggest that, you know, we are not close at this point. So given that and given that the appeal to Iran has been from and others, that a cease fire is we should be pushing for here and retaliation, by default, not what is it that Tehran hopes to achieve tod in Jeddah? Is this just a holding pattern? At this point? We're not going to get a cease f or tomorrow. I think you and I would agree on is this just a holding pattern at this point by tech? W Can we do you believe expect to see that threatened retaliati in the days to come. Well, as I said, Becky, the danger is real. I think our meeting today will not be able to bring about a cease fire. I think Iran and Palestine, called for this, emergency meeti try and rally Arab Muslim, position behind condemning the assassination of  and to urge for, more effective work by the international community, to end the aggression, on Gaza. again, I think we need to do, so really transformative here. I think, regardless of where Iran is, where Israel is at this point, if we are to force Israel to accept the cease fire and the aggression in Gaza, ensure that we get that permanent cease then we would have created enoug for everybody to say enough is e Now we have an opportunity at a real de-escalation, and we should, move towards that So, the talks on the cease fire are obviously complicated, particularly after the assassina of the chief negotiator on, from the Hamas, side, which is w believe is is, a violation of international law and a reckless move that we condemned as a crime. But but beyond that, where do we we have two paths. A path that will drag the region further into the abyss of war, or a path that would say enough  and save the region from, the devastation of an all out wa And we believe that if we throw into, the the the th discourse, real promise of a cease fire, th we believe everybody, will have, a strong a to say, let's not escalate any f Everybody must exercise self self-restraint. And, use the opportunity of a ce to go further towards, calming the temperature in the r Ismail Haniya, described by the  as the lead negotiator, of course, for Hamas in those indirect talks, his assassination is, as you suggest, complicating, any mediation effo Surely you accept that the appointment of Yahya Si seen as Israel, seen by Israel as the architect of the, October deadly attacks, his appointment as the political for Hamas at this point must further complicate, the, potential for any success in the fire talks, doesn't it? We are already in a very complex situation. the war on Gaza has been ongoing ten months. The devastation it has, produced is beyond description. And, we all rallied behind efforts to bring about that exchange deal to, reach, that, permanent ceasefire that w But, look, we've been to the door and back, so many times in, in regards to the discussion So I would not really say that w near or not near until we see that deal happening But I think the bottom line is t if there is a will to, achieve that cease fire, we believe that it can be achiev The challenge that we have is th every time we get near, we Israe does something that, complicates the situation further, including assume that pointed to, the assassination of of Ismail H in the middle of negotiations, which the US, Qatar and Egypt are saying we are achieving some progress. So you coming and, assassinated the chief negotiator, undermined the whole and continue with the war in Gaz our message to the whole world is that enough is enough. Enough killing and destruction has taken place. The only path forward is really to bring about an immediate ceas that will help, de-escalate the regional, situat will save the region from the abyss of further, confl and will protect the region from the agenda of Netanyahu, continues to, provoke, continues to escalate. And every time there is a glimpse of hope, he does something that, push us, pushes us back to the to the edge of the abyss. So the question is, do we allow  and his radical government to impose their agenda on the region and d it, therefore, to a future of more conflict? Or do we do what we all believe  and bring about that permanent and immediate cease fire, and then work with everybody to make sure that we are on a pa that will ensure that, everything that has happened since October 7th does not happen again. Nothing on the table as of yet is going beyond tactic We believe that we should start with, with with ending the aggression and start talking strategically about how do we, l a plan, to implement a solution that will guarantee we will not relive this, these horrors again. And that only solution is, ending the occupation and the two state solution. We cannot be capped by what Netanyahu is willing to  or willing to allow. Unfortunately, this has been the that is within which all, proposals have been,  thus far.
</doc>