<video_id>wG8UShiEHYo</video_id>
<video_title>Lebanese militant groups and Israel exchange fire across border</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Lebanese militant groups and Israel exchange fire across border.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231019</publish_date>

<doc>
The Israel Defense Forces say it is seeing a significant escalation on the border with Lebanon and has been striking back after some 20 rockets or so were fired toward Israel. Today, the Iran backed militant group Hezbollah says it also attacked five Israeli military post. A spokesperson for the IDF says that tells CNN that Hezbollah is trying to drag Lebanon into the conflict, certainly something people in the region have been worried about. CNN's Ben Wedeman is in southern Lebanon for CNN. Right now. Ben, what have you been seeing as there is this concern that if Israel does, if and when embark on this ground invasion, that the fighting could increase and then Lebanon could get pulled into this war Now, Caitlin, we're hearing a lot of this cross-border fire today wasn't just Hezbollah. There was focusing mainly on Israeli military positions along the border, but also the military wing of Hamas got involved and they claimed to have fired 30 rockets into the upper Galilee region. But it's important to keep in mind that even though certainly we are seeing more cross-border fire on this in this area, than perhaps 2006 during that war back then. But Hezbollah is being very careful to keep it within certain limits to avoid a full scale war. It seems to be wanting to show that it is supporting Hamas by doing some action here without going all the way. Keep in mind that this just a few months ago, the Israeli defense minister said that if Hezbollah decides to launch a war on Israel, Israel will bomb Lebanon back into the Stone Age. So there is a certain hesitance and certainly in this area where we are. There is nervousness about the possibility of a full scale war. We spoke with a shopkeeper here who told us that he has his bags packed in his car ready to go in the event that things go really south. So there is nervousness. But at the moment, I think a certain level of violence without going too far is being maintained here. Caitlin. Yeah. And that's really interesting given the idea that I mean, if you see these strikes going back and forth, something you say we haven't seen in 20 years. And I should note we're hearing a little bit of activity here right now in Tel Aviv. We'll be monitoring that. But but you're saying what Hezbollah is doing is maybe a little bit, but not enough to provoke Israel. And that is not the sense of what's actually happening on the ground, what their decision making is Yes. I mean, they are doing I mean, what we're seeing really in terms of Hezbollah's capabilities is really just the tip of the iceberg. These are very localized attacks. They're not lobbing missiles into that in the direction of large Israeli population centers. We're getting Hezbollah is putting out videos every day. They're they seem to be focusing on communications, surveillance and observation equipment. On the Israeli side, occasionally hitting tanks and troops as well. But it's really very military in its focus, not what we're seeing, for instance, in coming out of Gaza. This is very specific And clearly the best, though, seems worried that it could go from the state of where it is right now to something bigger because this warning came out from the State Department telling Americans who are in Lebanon leave the country as soon as possible. They're worried there may not be commercial options to do so. As soon or in the near stage, I guess. I mean, have you sensed a change in how people feel? Are they going about everyday life or do you think do you sense something different since you've been on the ground Well, certainly in this area along the border, there is nervousness. Some people have already left. Others have left and come back because they can't afford to hang out in hotels in Beirut. But certainly in general, if you're talking about Lebanon, there is nervousness. And it's not just the US government, the UK Germany, Australia, Saudi Arabia and others have told their nationals in Lebanon that it's a good time to leave now while they're still flights keep in mind that in 2006 at the beginning of the war between Hezbollah and Israel, one of the first things Israel struck was the airport in Beirut. It's also important to keep in mind that when we're talking about nationals of the US, Australia, U.K., Germany, Canada and whatnot, there are hundreds of thousands of Lebanese who have dual passports. So it's not just tourists who are here or businessmen. There are a lot of Lebanese who hold these passports as well. And in 2006, all of these countries had to send ships to take their nationals out And so we're talking about not just a few thousand, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who in theory should leave. But many of them are obviously connected to their land, to their homeland, and won't be leaving. But we're not talking about a small number of people. Caitlin. A difficult decision for a region that is certainly on edge.
</doc>