<video_id>THV_OuzC9jM</video_id>
<video_title>Military analyst breaks down Israeli evidence in Gaza hospital blast</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Military analyst breaks down Israeli evidence in Gaza hospital blast.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231019</publish_date>

<doc>
And for a closer look at what we do know and what we don't about this blast, I want to bring in CNN military analyst, retired Lieutenant General Mark Hertling here. General, look, we have some video here, and I want you to just take a look at this. This is some footage that seems to show a rocket going up here and then something happens. That's pretty catastrophic when you see this. What do you see? I see a flame out of a rocket and we've been talking about this all day. You know, and it's a result of what happened yesterday. But when you see that rocket going forward, this happens a lot with these kind of rocket that are supplied by Iran. It is a rocket motor that doesn't work. It gets a certain distance and then it just flamed out and a rocket has a trajectory of a brick. Once it doesn't have a force behind it, so it immediately drops. So you see it, right? This is a slow motion there. Video flame out. Yeah. So it loses its rocket motor and then it just drops down. But what you also have when that happens is the fuel. That's part of the rocket that hasn't burned. So when it hits the ground, we'll see next year the explosion of an explosion from a viewpoint from the ground. Now, this isn't a very big piece of ordnance. It's a relatively small ordnance. So the the the actual explosive isn't that big. But what is big is the fuel that it hasn't used. That caused a lot of cars in that parking lot to burn. We see the after effects of that. We see a very small crater. If it heads in a crater, actually take a look at what you're discussing here. I'm going to just break this down a little bit more for folks. This what I'm showing you here, this has to be clear, provided by the IDF. This shows what looks like satellite imagery of the area where this rocket may have come down. Right. This is the explosion site. They're saying that if you look over here, this is what typically you would see if there was an IDF strike, even as large as 19 meters, a much larger crater. It doesn't seem like we see that here. And we also have some before and after images here. This is the hospital, the Al-Ahly Hospital. This is the explosion site in this area here. And here it is after. So you were just discussing the size of the crater. We don't some of the images are not super clear. No. Whether there was a crater or not. But when you look at this, this is up close of the cars and the side of the fire. Well, what I saw earlier today was a photo of a very small crater about right here, about right there. What you see in this area are a lot of burned cars. What you see over here are cars that are not burned. What you see across at this building, if you had a picture of the building, which I think we do know, I'm sorry, we don't have an up close of the building, but we do have what we do see is pockmarks on the side of the building. Look at this video here. And it's well, and it will show up here. You see the burning car. But is the camera scans over here, you'll see cars that aren't burned. Yeah, very close. So it had an effect of the explosive capability of a rocket, which is relatively small, but a lot of fuel blowing up after it. That didn't burn off the rocket motor. So this is evidence of certainly not a bomb that would come off of an aircraft. You see the pockmarks, the blown out windows, but not a whole lot else. I mean, there's not a whole lot of damages to the building. Now, the doctors inside of the building said that there were patients that were injured that could have been from the blast glass flying inside of the building. But it certainly wasn't a strike on the hospital itself. And just briefly, if you were to have seen a strike, a true strike coming from Israel, I want to also, just as I'm saying, this show you, this is an image that shows, according to the IDF, the trajectory of this rocket. And it comes from somewhere inside of northern Gaza and it goes this direction across east. What you have here is something called a point of origin. That's where the rocket was fired from. Right. Where that red dot is. You see multiple tracers coming off of those. Those are the different rockets that come out of that rocket pod. The one that came out right here came out over the hospital. And I. I believe that that was the one that lost its engine and fell on close to the hospital, not on the hospital. So this is part of the proof that the Israeli Defense Forces gave. They said, hey, here, this is something called a QS 36 radar. They use these radars to connect with the Iron Dome to shoot down rockets. So when you see all these coming off of a missile site and one dropping over the top of a hospital, you can see where it was truthfully, an accident, a missile that that didn't go through to to its final mission. Yeah. And as you pointed out many times, these are Iranian provided missiles. They they tend to do that. General Mark Hertling, thank you very much for breaking all of that down for us. And President Biden reflecting on the difficult decisions ahead for Israel's leaders. Here is part of what he said. I made wartime decisions. I know the choices are never clear or easy for the leadership. There's always cost. That requires being delivered. It requires asking very hard questions. It requires clarity about the objectives and an honest assessment about whether the path you're on will achieve those objectives. Now, the vast majority of Palestinians are not Hamas. Hamas does not represent the Palestinian people. I want to bring in now Aviv Ezra, a senior Israeli diplomat at the New York consulate and a former consul general in Chicago. Aviv, thank you for being here. This incident has had real ripple effects. And putting aside for a moment any dispute about who's responsible and who's not. We just broke that down. Has it altered Israel's plans for a ground invasion of Gaza? Well, the way we see it, this is actually a triple war crime. On the one hand, they're sending missiles from population areas into Gaza. They're shooting at population, innocent civilians in Israel. And thirdly, when they misfire, they hit their own population in the Gaza Strip. So for us, this is not only a triple war crime. It is something that later on that took a life of its own into the conversation of who is in charge and the fake news that came out of it with the attack on the station last 24 hours ago created a situation where Israel was guilty before we finish it. But I'm sure you can imagine that that is likely to happen here. Does the fallout from this, even if it's as a result of misinformation, change the calculus for Israel as it tries to decide what happens if there is a ground invasion and whether that is something that can be done or should be done right now? Well, for Israel, it's pretty clear that we have to make sure that what happened in October seven would not happen again. Therefore, we want to make sure that we extract the pricetag from the period from Hamas's the price tag from the Israeli people to the Palestinian people, because they mourn really the brunt of the burden. Correct. So we want to differentiate between the Palestinian people and Hamas. And like the president said, Hamas is a terror organization, a vicious, barbaric terrorist concession that needs to pay a price. And by the way, when we talk about free Gaza, I think they talk about free Gaza from Hamas. So we we are doing everything we can to make sure to make that differentiation. We open corridors, safe corridors, to have the innocent population go down south. We invested for days. We are waiting to make sure that they make it, that we create safe shelters over there. We actually have, on the other hand, Hamas pushing them back into the war zone by that, creating another world. Do you understand why there is so much distrust in the Arab world of the information coming from the IDF and the narrative about what happened in this hospital blast? And how is Israel going to deal with the fact that some of that distrust comes from a real place? Because there have been past incidents in which the IDF has given incorrect information? Well, the IDF, I think, is most of the time that we are focused on investigating and understanding what happened. It takes time. This is what happened this time around. This is what happened in the past. When we get it wrong, we try to fix it. And sometimes we also try to fix things that that we have got wrong in the past. I think credibility is crucial here. We are comparing between a liberal democracy with checks and balances and a terror organization. And I think at this time it's black and white. We have to, first of all, stand by Israel, like the president said. All right. Ezra, thank you very much for joining us. We appreciate it. Thank you so much.
</doc>