<video_id>Nju_fp_bCso</video_id>
<video_title>Naked, handcuffed and blindfolded: Palestinian poet details time in Israeli custody</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Naked, handcuffed and blindfolded Palestinian poet details time in Israeli custody.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231228</publish_date>

<doc>
International calls for restrain are growing this morning after Israel has continued to pr to continue its war against Hama for many more months. Recently surfaced video appears to show Palestinian men and at least two children stripped down to their underwear and detained by the IDF in Gaza. CNN is unable to verify when the video was shot, but geo location data shows it was filmed in a stadium of Ga The IDF has not responded to CNN's request for comment on that video. The incident, though, resembles an account shared by a Palestinian poet and writer Moussa Abu Butt Abu toA. In a new piece published in The New Yorker, which claims he was forced to completely undr at gunpoint before being detained and interrogated by the IDF earlier this month, he was trying to cross the Rafah with his wife and three kids, including his three year old son, Mustafa, who is a U.S.  Abu Tor said he was terrorized and beaten while being questione about whether he had ties to Ham Well-known poet and writer has studied at Syracu and Harvard and denies repeatedly any ties to Hamas or terrorism. The IDF gave a statement to CNN noting that it's a partial respo and that they are still looking into the allegations, saying in part, during IDF opera in the Gaza Strip, a number of individuals were detained on the basis of intelligence indicating significant communica between them and terror organizations in the strip, out of suspicion of affiliation with terror organizations there. Saab Abu Tova was found to be mistakenly identified in this re and was thus released after ques The individuals detained are treated in accordance with international law, the Saab Abu told joins us now live from Cairo, Egypt. We appreciate your time. And I want to start with what the IDF says in their statement, because what they don't discuss in the statement is what transpired between when you were detained and when they realized or came to the conclusion it was a mistake. And you were r You describe it in visceral detail in your piece Can you tell people what happene Well, I was evacuating the north of Gaza, wh which Israel has been repeatedly asking people to evacuate. And I was going to the north, to the southern part of the Gaza in the hope of reaching the Rafa crossing with my wife and three  But when I arrived at the checkp that Israel created on the Salahadin street, which was called a safe passage for Palestinians trying to evacu to the southern part, I was called by a description by an Israeli soldier who was about 150 meters away from the line. He was he was asking me to drop my son and drop my my ba and join the line of the other people who were called who will call before I was later called by name. And then I was taken to another  with two Israeli soldiers pointing their guns at  and they were asking me to undre I took off all my clothes, my sweater and pants, and then I only had my boxer sho And then the two soldiers were looking at each other and shouting in Hebrew. And then he said, Continue. Take off the boxer shorts. And then I looked at the other p next to me, the Palestinian person next to me, who was also detained with me. And we were surprised that they are asking us to to strip of all our clothes. So we had nothing to do but to take off our boxer shorts And then when I was naked for the first time in my life in front of strangers, I was asked to turn around. So I. I did what they asked for. And then I was handcuffed and I was blindfolded. And then I was taken to a very c and I was interrogated. I introduced myself in English and I asked them to to listen to what I'm saying. I was just returning to that. Took to Gaza ten days before October seven, and I told them about everything and he said, You are a Hamas act And we stopped your wife and three children. So he was threatening me with my They stopped my wife and three c at the next checkpoint. I told him, Do you have any evidence, any proof that I am Hamas activi or a photograph, a video, a satellite image showing anything? And then he slapped me across th He said, You give me a proof. And I was wondering, I mean, how could I how could they give you a proof that I am not Hamas? And then I was taken, I was beat I was violently treated along with other young people li And there was one someone next to me who was crying and said, please, I want to go back to my pregnant wife and my little daughter. So that that was part of the the May of my day during the fir the first day. And then I was I found myself in an Israeli detention center. Later I knew it was Beersheba or a better suburb. And later I was interrogated by an Israeli captain. I told him about myself, everyth And it was not a tough day for m but for other people. It was tou And then he said, okay, we will  We are going to verify the information you give us. And then 2 hours later, an Israeli soldier said, We are sorry about the mistake. You are going home. And then I said, Are you serious about that? I mean, I'm going to be with my family a And he said, I'm serious. And then I later thought to myse how many mistakes have the Israeli army committed against other Palestin And I thought that my my quick release was, I think was a result of the pressure that was put by measures. News outlets, The New Yorker and other medias. But I'm thinking about there are many hundreds other people like me who are innocent, who have been living in Gaza, who have been unable to leave Gaza to study or to visit their relatives, etc who have been born, you know, in for during a hellish situation. Right. And these people do not have the they had. So So this has to end. This is what I think. To that point, you you published a public letter to President Biden on Christmas writing, quote, I'm not asking you in this lette to impose a two state solution, nor am I asking for the bringing bac the lives of the children and their families. I'm asking you as a power to impose a cease fire for peace and for children and for humanit When you look at the responses of world leaders up to this poin what do you think has been missi Well, I I mean, what is missing is that they are not listening t what the people in the world are asking for. Many people went out in the stre and they asked for a cease fire, not because they want Hamas, but because they want to save the lives of the children in Gaz I think this war is not against  and Hamas. It's it's it's a war between Israel and the people in Gaza. If you look at their numbers, there are about 21,000 people who have been kill Half of them are children. And there is one thing that is missing in this discours Half of the population in Gaza, there are more than 2 million pe So after each airstrike, after each artillery shelling, half of the people who are killed are childr not to mention the mothers, etc. So they need to stop this war to protect the children and then to try to find a just solution to the Palestini It's not only about October 7th. I was wounded when I was 16 in 2 and no one ever talked about tha And there are I lost a lot of fr in my childhood. Right. But no one talks about this. I mean, it didn't start two months ago or three mo It's been going for a long time. And we need to find a just solut to the Palestinian case. There's a there's a line in your that really stood out to me. You wrote that is details began to emerge on October 7th. Quote, Some Gazans seemed excited and happy about the attack, but many of us were perplexed an Although Gaza has been devastate by, in your words, Israeli occupation, I could not justify the atrociti committed against Israeli civili There's no reason to kill anyone like that. When you look to the future, you've been talking about it. What is your sense of what Gazan the future? Do people want Hamas to be invol in governance going forward? What is the future? Well, the future I mean, the problem, I think, with the Gaza is not about only Hamas I mean, it's there are there are lots of issu There is the Palestinian local rift between Hamas and Fat itself. And Israel has been benefiting from this political rift. I mean, what people in Gaza real They want to have peace. They want to have their own airp their own seaport. They need to travel when they wa wherever they want. They need to be respected outsid who are not respected inside Gaz because we are being killed every time from the sea, from th from the sky, from the land. But we are not even respected outside of Gaza. When you are trying to go to an  I, for example, I tried to go to the American Em in Jerusalem multiple times and the Israeli side, my permit. And they want they don't want us to live in Gaza and they do not want us to leave Gaza to study or to to learn about other people outside So people I mean, people in Gaza are asking for jobs. They are asking for a decent lif They are asking to have their ow crossing to control the border crossings in Gaza. They need to to. this has been one of my dreams as a child. I still have dreams of seeing Ga from a plane window and I still  dreams of seeing Gaza from a distant ship. I need to see all these things. But you are. I mean, Israel continues to kill Not during this war, but even before that. So why people were concerned? Because Israel has killed thousands of Palestinians without Hamas invading Palestinian neighboring towns and cities. But now, with the scenes that we have seen on October sev I thought that Israel would have an excuse, an excuse to kill more and more people and mostly child So children and civilians have been the vict for a long time. Yeah. Obviously, the IDF says that they're responding in the October 7th attack and Hamas is intermingled with the civilian population. But the scale of the death toll is certainly something that is not in dispute. The IDF also saying they made a  when they detained you. It is a very important personal  in The New York Times, your baby Sara, we appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you so much.
</doc>