<video_id>vu4Txxw9bOo</video_id>
<video_title>NYT reporter says Israel knew Hamas's attack plan over a year ago</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\NYT reporter says Israel knew Hamas's attack plan over a year ago.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231201</publish_date>

<doc>
Talk about what your team learned about this blueprint and the length of time that Israel had to review these plans and why it wasn't listened to. So somewhere around along 2022, Israeli intelligence was able to get the plan for the Hamas attack. It codenamed it was coordinated by Israeli intelligence, the wall of Jericho, the Jericho Wall. Any details? Many, many, many different details of how the attack is going to take place exactly as it took place more than a year after? This could be an intelligence victory for for Israel. But Israeli analysts, some of the senior of Israeli intelligence, saw the plan as more of the goal, as a compass for the building of the forces where Hamas wants to be, but not with Hamas. So while having that plan, they saw this as something that Hamas is far from being capable of doing. They believe that Hamas has doesn't have the ability to conduct such a massive operation. We are talking about, according to that plan, to break the fence between Gaza and Israel in 60 different places. Israel believed they could do that maybe in two places. They called for the bombing and destruction of the cameras instantly the same simultaneously, the beginning of the attack of the cameras, the automatic guns, the communication centers, and then the ramping of the division headquarters, the Gaza division headquarters that is in charge of protecting the front, the main in July of this year. So a year after an analyst that was reviewing intercepts about Hamas military exercises wrote a letter, an e-mail, an exchange of email, encrypted e-mail. She comes from a 200, the Israeli NSA, the equivalent to the American embassy. And she described the drill and she said that she believes that Hamas is narrowing the gap between the wall of Jericho player and Israel capabilities. And there was a pushback from senior most senior intelligence officer said that told her this is an imaginary plan. They cannot do that. And so here is the tragedy for Israeli intelligence, for Israeli public, instead of positioning. It's not just an intelligence debate. If Israel if the Israeli Defense Forces would adopt this plan, something that Hamas can do even without any connection to the intention of the US decision to execute, this is something that the analyst could say she did not push back on the Israeli wisdom that time, that time leading three four months ago that Hamas doesn't want to go to war. But if the Israeli defense establishment had the knowledge that Hamas is capable of launching such an attack, that would put a totally different size of forces on the border. The outcome could be very different. Also, according to your reporting, this analyst, this woman analyst, we saw an exercise that Hamas undertook a trial run and raised red flags, again, saying this looks very much like the Wall of Jericho plan that we discussed before and again, which seem to have been dismissed, not just that she even has, she says here's an interesting bit of information, the same quote from the Koran serial murder that begins with which the this detailed plan for action, the still plan for attack starts with it's call for this. This is something about Moses, but it is it's about this surprise entry through a gate. I think it's not the case that Hamas picked this up. The people participating, the Hamas gunmen participating in that drill were using the same quote, the same quote is now part of the emblem of Hamas used in all Hamas publications in the statement incidents since the since the attack. As you know, the Israeli government posted online on X last month, quote, Contrary to the false claims, under no circumstances and at no stage was Prime Minister Netanyahu warned of Hamas's war intentions. They went on to say at no point was a warning given to Prime Minister Netanyahu on Hamas's intention to start a war. On the contrary, all the defense officials, including the heads of the intelligence directorate and the Shin Bet, assess that Hamas was deterred. Do you know if the prime minister was in fact informed? Because it sounds like from your reporting that this document was was widely disseminated in intelligence in military circles? Yes. So we don't know if Prime Minister Netanyahu got the was presented with this document. We do know and we this comes from previous reporting that he was warned against again and again and again. And it details at least four different letters throughout the last year that the members of the so-called axis of resistance, Iran, Hamas, Hezbollah, see Israeli weakness and they might decide to use what they believe a window of opportunity to attack. Yeah, this document was sent to many and I think this is a good point for further reporting about who saw and who decided to continue with this so-called conception, this the the ability to believe this Hamas is good thing. Ronen Bergman, it's incredible reporting. Thank you. More now on the forces at play tonight. Joining us is Alex Marquardt and Oren Liebermann, also Axios reporter and CNN political and foreign policy analyst. Barak revealed. And CNN military analyst, retired Army Lieutenant General Mark Hertling. Brock, first of all, how damning is this report for the Israeli government? Well, I think this this is part of a series of stories that appeared in the Israeli press over the last week or two weeks that what happens behind them is a fight between the Israeli intelligence community or parts of it, especially the military intelligence and the political echelon with each side leaking stuff that are more comfortable to him when it comes to everything that's happened in the year before the war. And, you know, a lot of people in Israel think that the reason that now we hear about those documents is because it's very comfortable for Benjamin Netanyahu and his people. And they're trying to put those things out in order to build a case for the inquiry committee that most likely is going to be formed on the day after the war. I mean, as you know, intelligence officials, military officials have accepted responsibility. Benjamin Netanyahu has not in any form accepted any responsibility for the attack on on October 7th. He had very early on, right before the the the operation in Gaza. He had tweeted out a criticism of the heads of the military and intelligence and then quickly withdrew that tweet and apologized for for that. But it certainly seems like this is something he wants out there. No doubt. By the way, there was a huge intelligence failure. It's not that it's not true. There was a huge intelligence failure. I just you know, in one of the emails, this analyst from Israel Signals Intelligence Agency, a 201 of the headlines of one of her emails that was warning from this plan was the headline was Death in the Kibbutz. Okay. How symbolic is that? Several months ago, death in the kibbutz, you wrote. So there was a huge intelligence failure, not the third level, but the higher level of the people who were actually making the decisions. And that their job is to actually warn that political echelon of what was going on. But at the same time, Netanyahu did get a lot of other warnings that had to do also with, you know, the general situation where Israel's enemies were planning to gang up on it because of the domestic crisis over Netanyahu's judicial overhaul in the months Alex, what do you make of this report? How are U.S. officials likely to react? Well, Anderson, I really do think it goes to this theme that we've been reporting on for quite some time of the underestimation of what Hamas was capable of doing and certainly what they intended to do. You and I have talked about intelligence reports and assessments both on the Israeli and the American side in the days leading up to October 7th that indicated that Hamas might do something. Now, what that something was expected to be was what we had seen before in previous rounds of fighting that were frankly rather inconsequential for Israel. And that would have been rockets being fired across the border, which then likely would have been intercepted by the Iron Dome, which is exactly what we're seeing on our screen right there. But there was no sense that Hamas would be able to break through the friends fence and carry out the types of massacres that they did. There is acknowledgment and public acknowledgment here in the U.S. from intelligence officials and Biden administration officials that this was purely an Israeli intelligence failure. American intelligence officials are not taking any responsibility for this. They are laying it at the feet of the intelligence apparatus and security apparatus in Israel. Essentially, the U.S. has been so focused on China and on Russia and Ukraine that they just don't spend a lot of time thinking about Hamas and other Palestinian militant groups. Now, will that change going forward? That remains to be seen. We've certainly seen U.S. intelligence playing a much bigger role during this conflict with drones and other kinds of signals intelligence gathering. But in their minds, this is an Israeli intelligence failure. I think most will tell you that Netanyahu is not expected to survive this. But there's also an expectation that the heads of the intelligence agencies, there's going to be a reckoning.
</doc>