<video_id>8DadIzZa_M8</video_id>
<video_title>Palestinian prime minister and government resign</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Palestinian prime minister and government resign.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240226</publish_date>

<doc>
Israeli military has also presented a plan for evacuating civilians from the areas of fighting in Gaza. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's office says the IDF presented the war cabinet with an upcoming operational plan, but it doesn't specifically mention the southern Gaza city of Rafah, where Israel is being planning a potential ground offensive. This comes as talks are expected to resume in Qatar today to try to secure the release of more hostages in Gaza in exchange for a pause in the fighting. Journalist Eliot Cohen joins us. Let's start with those hostage talks then, because you're describing how that does appear still to be some momentum behind them. That does, we have these talks in Paris on Friday and Saturday. And we had Jake Sullivan of the National Security Council coming out after saying there's an understanding on the contours of a potential deal had been reached. So now it seems that in Doha, they're going to be trying to deal with the thornier issues to try to deal with those details and come to some kind of compromise. Now, up until these talks, the sticking point, at least so far as Israel was concerned, was Hamas demands that there be a complete cessation of hostilities and the release of thousands of Palestinian prisoners, demands that Prime Minister Netanyahu described as delusional. So the hope now is that perhaps they are inching towards some kind of compromise, which, as you say, would lead to the freeing of some, but probably not all of those Israeli hostages. More than just round about 100 believed to still be alive and being held in captivity in the Gaza Strip after being kidnaped on October the seventh in exchange for the freeing of Palestinian prisoners. And, of course, the all important humanity and pause of around about six weeks. And, of course, at the same time is that a surge in humanitarian aid to go where it's desperately needed in terms of the Palestinian Authority What's the latest situation there in terms of leadership? So we heard just this morning that the prime minister, Mohammed Shtayyeh, submitted his resignation along with that of his entire government to Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority. Now, he still needs to offer his resignation in person. That still needs to be accepted. But this is seen to be perhaps one step towards the revitalization, the reconstitution of the Palestinian Authority, to enable it to be palatable to the Americans and perhaps less unpalatable to the Israelis for taking control of the Gaza Strip that they after this war. Now, he will probably be asked to stay on as a caretaker prime minister And there's no indication that whoever replaces him will be any different. the real change for the Palestinian Authority least, it won't be seen as changing to any serious degree until such time as Mahmoud Abbas is no longer president. He, of course, is in now the 19th year of a four year term. He's widely reviled among Palestinians. He's widely seen as being corrupt as well. So I think for the Palestinian Authority to be seen to be really changing that, Mahmoud Abbas would probably be expected to go as well. Okay, Eliot, thank you so much. The death toll from this conflict is also rising outside of Gaza. The Palestinian Ministry of Health says more than 400 Palestinians have now been killed in the occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem since October 7th, either by Israeli forces or settlers. That would include three Palestinians killed in the Jenin refugee camp this past week, which the IDF confirmed as part of what they described as a counter terrorism raid. Our Nic Robertson met with the father of slain Palestinian-American teen Tawfiq Abdul Jabbar, who was shot in the West Bank last month. His father says their family is still struggling for answers and trying to bring the person responsible for his son's killing to justice. Yeah, so this dirt road, you see it down here? Yeah. This is where we are. Tawfiq was shot at an American father, Hafez Abdul Jabbar, showing us his family land where he says his son was murdered. By an Israeli settler in January. He wasn't going to do anything wrong, simply a barbecue Friday prayer and come back home. And he's not a terrorist. He's a American. Palestinian kid full of life wanted to do so much in his life. His son Tawfiq, was 17 years old, studying towards his dream job. Nasser engineer. The family, left Louisiana last spring, returning temporarily to their roots in the occupied West Bank. They visited their ancestral hilltop village home most years. All around the village, there are murals of Cow Fig remembered immortalized, and underneath it says the smiling martyr. Tough weeks trauma increasingly common in the West Bank. And this is getting worse and worse in the worst since October. That way, worse. They're turning it more like into Gaza. Exactly. They want to turn up to Gaza. You see the bullet? Yes. A month after Tawfik death, Hafez is struggling to get justice. The single shot that killed his son, an exploding bullet entering the back of his head, clear in the CT scan of his brain. Photos of the crime scene and an investigation by the Palestinian Authority document. Ten shots. Video shows what Hafez says is a soldier taking the final shot. An eyewitness says a settler took the first shot. Israeli investigators say an off duty police officer and an off duty soldier were also present at the time of 12 week's killing, but have yet to charge any of them. They say the investigation is ongoing. That's the problem that I'm facing right now that we all face in here. That when they do such a thing and they're not stopped and they're not questioned, it's okay for them to do it again and again and again. And that's what keeps happening here. This is not the first kid that got shot and killed in the same area since October 7th. Nearly 400 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli soldiers and Israeli settlers. There are currently 9000 Palestinians being held in Israeli prisons and jails. Sari Bashi is an Israeli human rights expert living in the West Bank, has been tracking Israeli security force tactics there for more than a decade. Hamas says brutal October 7th attacks. She believes became a watershed for unprecedented Israeli violence in the West Bank. We have seen things piloted in Gaza and later moved to the West Bank in terms of the levels of violence. The airstrikes, the drone strikes are starting to become much more frequent in the West Bank. And not just more aggressive and more frequent, but more audacious to not to mention possibly illegal, according to U.N. experts like this, covert Israeli special forces up in a hospital that killed three militants believed to be planning an attack. The hospital says the men were sleeping when shot. IDF diggers gouging out West Bank streets, rendering them unusable akin to Gaza's battle torn thoroughfares. Also deepens fears the West Bank is worsening the impact of Israel's actions according to respected Palestinian pollster Khalil Shikaki, is enabling groups like Hamas. The West Bank is becoming more militant today than Gaza was before the war or today because of what the Israeli government is doing here, because of what the Israeli government is doing, what the army is doing, and what the settlers are doing. While we support in such a regime like that, Hafez is angry. President Joe Biden isn't doing more to pressure Israel to rein in radical settler leaders, like Security Minister Ma Ben-gvir, whose party has called for the annexation of the West Bank. The Israeli government maintains its military operations only target terror suspects, but settler violence has spiraled in recent months. These officials on TV from the Israeli governments making these comments and passing weapons from being a four year old to these settlers, that's why they feel like they can do anything without being charged or without being stopped. Impunity that is ripping irreversibly through his family. How can they forget their brother? Can they ever forget their brother? Can they ever forget who shot their brother? No. Well, I told my wife I want to have another Tawfik and I want my older son to get married and have another two feet across the square from his family home. That predates Israel's creation by more than 70 years. Is the town's cemetery to fix where Tawfik is buried? Feet from two of Hafez's uncles whom he says were killed by settlers 36 years ago. That's a message to them, to the Israeli government. We're not going nowhere. Even if you put all of us right here, generations will come. And for to this country from you guys. Defiance. Yes. But beneath it a father struggling. When do I see him again? Want to see my 17 years old again? When? When do I get to see him again? That's. That's the minute that I right now I think about. I don't think about money. I don't think about business anymore. I don't think about anything else other than when do I see my son again? Nic Robertson, CNN, the West Bank.
</doc>