<video_id>aKGBsmYXtFQ</video_id>
<video_title>Protests erupt near US embassy in Lebanon amid Gaza hospital blast</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Protests erupt near US embassy in Lebanon amid Gaza hospital blast.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231018</publish_date>

<doc>
A US defense official says that the US had to shoot down two attack drones that were targeting U.S. forces in Iraq. There were no injuries there and it is not clear who exactly launched the drones. But such attacks, they say, are frequently attributed to Iran or Iranian backed militants in the region. The news comes, of course, as American embassies have been facing protests in a number of Middle East countries because of the war in Gaza. Right now in Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, hundreds of protesters are gathered in the streets as they were overnight. This is video I think, of overnight. They tried to break through security barriers near the U.S. embassy. And these are live. Okay. So I can't it's difficult for me to see where I'm from, my vantage point. But, yes, these are live pictures happening right now. You see lots of smoke. You see people in the streets. They are clearly, clearly terribly upset about what is happening next door to Lebanon. In Gaza in particular, you can hear the chants, hundreds of people. Let's bring in CNN's Ben Wedeman, who is in south Lebanon live for us. Ben, can you just give us a sense of what you've been seeing on the ground and what you've been hearing from from your sources about these protests? Well, we're hearing some large explosions just to the south of here near the border with Israel. But these protests are very much reflective of many people in Lebanon, particularly. It's been simmering since the 7th of October, but particularly since that strike on the hospital in Gaza yesterday. Last night, we saw protests outside the US embassy. It's north of Beirut. It's actually not in Beirut. It's about eight miles north of Beirut. And of course, again, we're seeing it today with protesters throwing rocks and shooting fireworks at the Lebanese police. Police responding with water cannons and lots and lots of tear gas. It's important to keep in mind that behind those barriers, it's about half a mile up the hill to the US embassy itself. There's another explosion and this embassy is highly fortified. The staff are allowed to simply walk out the door and enjoy the pleasures of Beirut because of security concerns. Now, speaking of the embassy, the State Department has said that the families of US embassy staff members and non-emergency personnel are now authorized to leave the country should they so desire on a case by case basis. The United States has also advised Americans not to travel to Lebanon, and we're seeing a similar advisory coming out of France as well. Now, regarding the situation in south Lebanon. And we've had two strikes by Hezbollah on Israeli positions. Hezbollah puts out videos of these strikes, and it appears that, among other things, they have struck a tank. Overnight, we heard a fair amount of explosions. There's another one in the distance. I don't know if you can pick that up, but certainly reflective of the ongoing tensions here on the border between Lebanon and Israel. Sara? Ben, you have been in this region for a very long time. And just to get your sense of things, for example, during the second intifada, what things look like in places like Beirut and in places like Jordan in comparison to what we are seeing now, because Jordan also has a huge number of Palestinians that live in Jordan and that have reacted in a very big way to what has happened in Gaza. All of these protests coming, of course, after a hospital was struck by someone. We do not know who at this point in time, we have not independently confirmed any of it, but Israel blaming Islamic Jihad and, of course, Hamas blaming Israeli airstrikes. Can you give us some sense of just context of what we're seeing now in neighboring countries to Israel? You? Well, what we're seeing is where it's boiling over the anger that people have been watching very closely, intensely, what's going on in Gaza. There's been scattered protests, but certainly yesterday I think that anger boiled over. It boiled over in Amman, where protesters went to the Israeli embassy, set fires around it, tried to get in, but were pushed back by Jordanian police. In Ramallah, Ramallah is a particularly important city place. It's essentially the capital of the Palestinian Authority there. We saw protesters clashing with Palestinian security forces. The protesters were calling were condemning what is happening in Gaza. But in addition to that, they were calling for the downfall of Mahmoud Abbas, the 87 year old president of the Palestinian Authority, who many Palestinians see as ineffectual. He's been passive during this current war. He doesn't seem to have any sway with the Israelis who don't respect the system of of zones, the areas that exist in the West Bank, where in theory, the Palestinian Authority is supposed to be in control. But the Israeli security forces go in as they please without any coordination with the Palestinians. In short, it's a very shaky regime in the West Bank and much of the anger, in addition to being directed at Israel, is directed at what is seen as a corrupt and ineffectual Palestinian Authority. Sara, really good reporting, really good contacts. Thank you so much, Ben Wedeman, for being there on the ground. Are you still hearing some munitions, it sounds like, behind you are scattered. Yes. But at this very moment, no matter. Okay. All right. Keeping you and your crew as safe as possible in these difficult conditions. Thank you, Ben. Kate, I'm going to go ahead and send it back to you. I just want to mention we are watching these live pictures of an extraordinary number of people who have come out to the streets. This is in Beirut. We are watching this live. People reacting, so upset to see what has happened, particularly in the hospital strike that has, according to Hamas, killed hundreds of people, including obviously patients, men, women and children.
</doc>