<video_id>cnzeS6Nb8z0</video_id>
<video_title>Qatar announces when Israel-Hamas truce will begin</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Qatar announces when Israel-Hamas truce will begin.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231123</publish_date>

<doc>
The beginning of the pause will be 7 a.m. Friday, the 24th of November, and it will last of course, as agreed for four days. And the first batch of civilians to be released from Gaza will be around 4 p.m. of the same day. They will be 13 and no all the women and children and those hostages from the same family will be put together within the same patch. CNN's Becky Anderson, who is in that press conference, asked multiple great questions. Becky, I think one of the key ones that you asked was what happens if one side breaches of this agreement what is the result of that? What stood out to you about the answer from from the Qatari official It was an interesting answer, wasn't it? He said this has to be a cessation of hostilities completely on both sides. On the ground and for periods of time in the air. And he made it very clear when asked about drones in the air, surveillance drones in the air, he said specifically during the period of the hostages being released, there would be no surveillance drones flown. And we know because we've had to what we might call proof of concept episodes where we've seen two sets of hostages released. Of course, the American mother and her 17 year old daughter some weeks ago and then two elderly Israeli citizens. We know that they were drones in the air at the time. And what he suggested is that can be very confusing. It can make people feel that there may be some hostile activity in the air. So certainly during the periods of time when the hostages are being released, the air the skies will be clear. The air space over those hostages will be clear. Let's just be very specific, I think, about what we learned today. This truce starts at 7 a.m. local Gaza time. That is 12 a or midnight Eastern time. And at some point after 4:00 in the afternoon, so 9 a.m. Eastern Time, we will see the first 13 hostages. The names of those 13 hostages have now been shared with both the with the Mossad on the Israeli side and the reciprocal arrangement, as it were. The release of Palestinian prisoners into the Palestinians hands will happen around the same time, although most Italians are the spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I couldn't say exactly how many hostages would be exchanged. And then after that, every day there will be a list and shared with both sides on those who will be released every day at around the same time. So let's assume for it to be around 4:00 in the afternoon Gaza and time for four days, that would take us up to effectively 50 hostages, women and children. After that, much of our sorry reminded us that the proposal the the deal includes a an opportunity for Hamas to come good on its agreement. And for every ten extra hostages release and the understanding is that they are holding as many as 70 to 80. There will be an extra day of this pause this cessation of hostilities for this brief period of time. So you know lots of good detail from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here today an important detail because although we knew that this deal had been agreed to there were lots and lots of things that were that that was still unclear until we heard from Majid al-Ansari at this press conference today. Kaitlin Yeah, that was key there, Becky. A sense of optimism that from the Qataris at least, that this could potentially go on for longer than the planned four days. We'll see. Of course, there is a good reason to be skeptical here. We'll see what this looks like once it's actually put into effect. Thank you, Becky Anderson. And Kate, obviously, this is the news that so many of these families have been waiting for that at midnight Eastern tonight, this temporary truce is going to go into place. And that based on what we just heard, if everything goes according to plan. 24 hours from now, we will see 13 women and civilian hostages released by Hamas in Gaza Kate. Caitlin, thank you so much. And to remind everyone, of the breaking news, which is this is a big moment that we're looking at right now as as of midnight, the news is midnight tonight, Eastern Time, 7 p.m. local the truce sets in. 4 p.m. local 9 a.m. eastern around. The hostages will be begin to be released. And is Israel has confirmed and then that they have a list in hand of the 13 hostages to be first released. 13 women and children are now just hours away hopefully from ending a weeks long nightmare. Joining us now on this news. Finally some more detail that we have gotten about what this exchange will look like is for me. The former deputy director of national intelligence, Beth Sanner. CNN global affairs analyst Kim Dozier. And retired Army Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt. Thank you guys for being here. Beth, what's your reaction to all of what we just heard laid out by Qatari officials of what this process is going to look like now? Well, I guess we'll skip ahead a little bit, because I think that, you know, tomorrow looks very good, but as each day progresses, it gets harder and more challenging. And it's clear from the way the Qataris laid out this plan that their goal is very, very divergent from where the Israeli goal is in the end. The Qataris want to extend this indefinitely and lead this lead to a peace agreement or full cease fire. And Israel is absolutely in a different place. And so I think that, you know, this does become much, much more complicated as it goes by. And it's an excellent point, because we just heard from the prime minister himself definitively saying the war continues last night, the mission remains to demolish Hamas. And general in terms of what this truce means and how it holds. So midnight tonight, Eastern is when the truce is to set in. And our Becky Anderson, our colleague over there, she asked Qatar officials what would constitute a breach of this agreement, a break in that truce by either side. And the visual definitely did not answer the question. What do you think would. Is it clear what would constitute a breach? And what happens if if they do Well, I think what would happen is there would be some undisciplined fire from perhaps a individual Hamas soldier that may or may not agree with what is what what is going on. He may be trying to lure the IDF into firing back. That happens so often in these tentative cease fires around the world. I think that that would not return the situation to a full combat operation. But as they said in the press conference, they would do everything they could to contain that type of violation. I think at this point, both sides want this this pause to stay in place during the duration of the hostage exchange and what the pause does. But does it pause B, get a pause is kind of a question, Kim, because a former head of Mossad told me last night that it will be for the IDF much harder to start the fighting in the military operation back up once this truce sets in for one, because he believed the mounting international pressure that would start building to at least bring about a slowdown. The IDF and the prime minister have assured, though, that they are going to return to operations. The mission continues What do you think of these Well, Israel has said that this agreement expires after ten days. And the White House really hoping that if the first four days go well, each of those additional days could lead to more hostage exchanges, possibly up to ten days. But turning the war back on is going to be really hard for the Israeli government because there will be pressure from the hostage families to keep this going to keep the exchanges going, because the Hamas militants, they're not going anywhere. They're stuck inside Gaza. So what's the difference between waiting another ten or 20 days to prosecute the war versus earlier And Beth Netanyahu, the role of the Red Cross was brought up in this press conference with Qatari officials and and he essentially said that the Red Cross has a role in accepting the hostages and kind of facilitating that. But there is also then Netanyahu saying yesterday that the Red Cross, he said the expectation is will be allowed to visit the hostages who remain behind, remain in Gaza and even offer medical support to those hostages. But the Red Cross, you know, the confusion sets in because the Red Cross says this morning they aren't aware of that agreement at all, though, ready to help in any way. Do you see Hamas letting the Red Cross in? What do you see as the role here? Well, Hamas will do what it sees in its interests and how it views that in terms of its broader interests of extending the cease fire indefinitely, giving itself time to regroup, trying to present itself as the the good guys here, you know, which is very hard for us to see. Right. But I think when you are looking at it from the Arab world, it looks different. So, yeah, I can see it actually happening in a way that Hamas tries to twist it into something positive for them in the end. You know, getting in there is absolutely the right thing and the good thing to do. So we'll see. Have to see how this goes.
</doc>