<video_id>OlOdM-qPCUI</video_id>
<video_title>Queen Rania: There's a 'glaring double standard' in how world treats Palestinians</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Queen Rania There's a 'glaring double standard' in how world treats Palestinians.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231024</publish_date>

<doc>
Can I ask you first, as an Arab, as a Palestinian, as a human being, a mother. How are you feeling? Ever since October 7th, Well, look, Christian, I cannot begin to describe to you the depth of the grief, the pain and the the shock that we are feeling here in Jord All of us are united in this gri regardless of our origin. We are just. Just can't believe the images that we're seeing every single d coming out of us. We're going to bed seeing those images and waking u you know, I don't know how to you know, as a mom, we've seen Palestinian who have had to write the names of their children on their hands because the chances of them bein to death of their bodies turning into corpses are so high I just want to remind the world that Palestinian mothers love their children just as much as any other mother in the world. And for them to have to go throu this is just unbelievable. And equally, I think the people all around the middle East, including in Jo we are just shocked and disappoi by the world's reaction to this catastrophe that is unfo in the last couple of weeks. We have seen a glaring double standard in the When October 7th happened, the w immediately and unequivocally stood by Israel and its right to defend itself and condemned the attacks that happened. But when we look we're seeing the last couple of  we have we're seeing silence in  Countries have stopped at just e concern or acknowledging the cas But always with a preface of dec of support for Israel. And are we being told that it is to kill a family, an entire fami at gunpoint, but it's okay to shell them to d I mean, there is a glaring double standard here, and it's it's just shocking to the Arab world. This is the first time in modern that there is such human sufferi and the world is not even calling for a fire. So the silence is deafening. And to many in our region, it makes the Western world compl through their support and through the cover that they give Israel, that it i its threat to defend itself. Many in the Arab world are looking at the Western world as not just tolerating this, but as aiding and abetting it. And this is just horrendous. And it's deeply deeply disappoin to all of us. Queen Rania, I'm going to ask you more about this and go deeper into this, you kno into your feelings about this. But first, I want to ask you, the Israelis are shocked to thei the grief, the the the the you k what happened to them has never happened in that way since the Holocaust. And they are shaken to their cor as I said, and the grief. I just want to get from you what you felt on Octobe Well, of course, I was shocked. And, you know, Jordan has made its position ver We condemn the killing of any ci whether Palestinian or is really that is Jordan's ethical and moral position. And it's also the position of Is Islam condemns the killing of civilians as my husband mentioned recently the pact of all my which was iss in the case of Jerusalem 15 centuries ago, that's 1000 years before the Geneva Conventions orders Muslims not to hurt a not a woman, child or elderly and to be the person and not to destroy a tree or hurt a priest. And so this is what we believe are the rules of engagement at a time of war. But they need to apply to everyb So yes, there was the shock and there is the condemnation. But why isn't there equal condem to what is happening now? I just want to emphasize that what happened on this conflict did not begin on October 7th, although it has been being portr as that. You know, most networks are covering the s under the title of Israel at War But for many Palestinians on the other side of the separat and the other side of the barbed war has never left. This is a 75 year old story a story of overwhelming death and displacement to the Palestinian people. It is a story of an occupation under apartheid regime that that occupies land,  that demolishes houses, confisca military incursions, night raids You know, the context of a nucle regional superpower that occupies, oppresses and commits daily documented crimes against Palestinians is missing from the narrative. for too long, Palestinians live. I'm sorry to interrupt. You. I want to ask you a specific que because you're using a lot of wo which clearly many in your you k in the Arab world have used words like apartheid. And the rest. But you know, that you are going to come under a lot of criticism from Israel and its supporters. And I'm wondering whether you're coming out to spe Let me just I know size, but let me just emphasize that that apartheid is a designation that was given not by Arabs, but by Israeli and international human rights organizations. You wrote in an Instagram story just in the last week. It isn't self-defense. If you are an occupying force and you show the destruction of  And you have posted a video of y from a presser in 2009 during th saying it is heartbreaking to see how little has changed the world cannot remain silent. This this has to stop. Do you feel that you have a particular  you know, as queen of Jordan in a country that has a peace treaty with Isr to speak up It's not about me. It's about speaking up for human this is not about being pro-Israeli or pro Palesti This is about choosing the peopl the everyday people on both side And, you know, and explaining ag that the Palestinian people have for too long been living under oppression and the dehumanization. they suffer daily indignities and human rights violations where they're being jailed or humiliated or ha They do not have freedom of move There are over 500 checkpoints scattered all over the West Bank You have a separation wall, which is deemed illegal by the International Courts of J that has separated the territories into 200 disconnected enclaves. you've seen the aggressive expan of settlements on Palestinian la and those have interrupted the territorial conviction integrity of the territories and has deemed an autonomous, independent Palestinian state no So you are seeing all these this is the background of this c There's a hyper fixation on Hama now because of that happened the last couple of But this is a problem that far precedes Hamas and will continue after Hamas. This is a fight for freedom and for justice, and that is what needs to be hea Can I ask you this question then, because, you know, quite a I think she's Saudi anyway. A journalist on the Saudi television network Al-Arabiya took this and hammered Khalid Meshaal, the former head of Hama and said to him, the butchery, that's my word. But she said what everybody seen on their screens  turned the world away from the Palestine cause and just to expand. People are saying Hamas and what Has brought this down on these poor people of Gaza. Do you accept that Well, I believe I do not believe and as I said, the killing of ci But this is a story of violence that has been going on now for s And this violence needs to be co But at the end of the day, what we're seeing today and what people need to understa is that, yes, you know, under th of of the right to defend itself we are witnessing atrocities. every country has a right to defend itself, but not through any means, not through war crimes, not through collective punishmen 6000 people, civilians killed so 2400 children. How is that self-defense? We are seeing butchery at a mass scale using precision precision weapons. so for the past two weeks, we ha the the indiscriminate bombardme of Gaza, entire families wiped out residential neighborhoods flattened to the ground, the targeting of hospitals and schools and churches and and and medical workers journalists and aid workers. why is why is it that whenever Israel commits these atrocities, it comes under the banner of self-defense? But when there's a violence by Palestinians, it is immediately called terrorism? Is the word terrorist. It's just reserved for exclusively for Muslims and  Well, let me ask there's a real double standard h You're seeing your husband being of all symmetry that we se Mm hmm. Well, let me ask you this. Your husband, King Abdullah, act because these are not two equal people in the conflict. one is an occupier and one is the occupied. One has a military, one of the mightiest in the worl and the other doesn't have a military at all. So there is a false symmetry her that is being drawn. And there's also when you say the rights to defen that does not say the entire sto it doesn't say the story of the  of international law, international humanitarian law. It doesn't tell you the sufferin and the end, the story of the oc You know, Israel is in violation of no less than 30 UN security resolutions that require it's an IT alone to withdraw from territories occupied in 1967 to stop the set the separation wall, the human rights violation This is at the crux of this issu It is not this hyper fixation on
</doc>