<video_id>A2S4Vi4F348</video_id>
<video_title>Retired IDF general criticizes Israeli military: We failed to defend civilians</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Retired IDF general criticizes Israeli military We failed to defend civilians.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231013</publish_date>

<doc>
The tension at the border of Israel and Gaza is palpable tonight. And here where Nic Robertson is, you can even hear the thuds of the explosions in Gaza from here in Tel Aviv. It comes as we are learning tonight about the incredible bravery of a retired Israeli general who headed straight into a hall Oh's kibbutz, which is just a few miles from Gaza as it was under attack on Saturday morning and along the way. General Ziv, armed only with a pistol, encountered Israeli soldiers who were outmanned and outgunned. And I spoke with him. He was deeply emotional, as he told me about the horrors he witnessed General, that morning Saturday morning, you. Was this the gun? What what kind did you have? This is new This is new. The gun that they had was was a little bit more simple. It's this one that was your pistol. So you were about to go for a bike ride, collect, take your pistol with you? No, I live next to Kfar Saba. Yeah, it's like an hour and a half from here. And it was biking my bike at 6:00, like, every Saturday. And we had that left, and I thought it, you know, might be some rocket or something simple that we already know. Yes. And then I had the call that something very serious and very heavy is happening. So I took that. The only four that are waiting for such occasion in the cabinet and took my college and run to Gaza to to engage to two to me, the forces So then what did you do We had very few forces, very few units. So I engage with the units and we went to a place to a place to see what's going on along the way with a lot of engagements. The, well, huge amount with Hamas. Yes, a lot of close contact engagements. So I was with the soldiers. I was shooting with that when a soldier was was injured next to me. I took his gun and shot and we progress from place to place all day long until late night. And then later on that evening or Saturday night, more units came in. So I had to engage them into the situation and have them to to manage with the battle in some of the kibbutzim. In general, what did you see? What did you see them doing in this kibbutz? You know, it's, it's it's terrible. In my whole military career, I haven't seen such a lot of fighting and terrible things, you know, off of killing. I saw women holding their children and being shot by holding them. People were hiding, you know, on the furnitures and got murdered. I saw a few people that the head was Trump children so it was terrible, terrible, terrible, terrible. And we say we feel I feel a shame. We fail to to protect them. They they live here that were the first line of all Israel or Passover, anything. And we fail we fail to to to defend them. It's it's it's a personal humiliation and national humiliation. Humiliation at the same time. So it is hard for anyone to hear what you're saying, to imagine that you saw you had to to see a mother within the child. Sorry, people. I mean, can you even unsee such things? Could you even comprehend, as you saw it happen, that it was that it was a human being doing these things to another human being, and nothing of that is human. It's it's animals. It's only animals can do such a thing. I've never seen such a thing. This is this is really low as only animal can do. It's only animal can do. I there's nothing human that you can see in the act. You know, it's it's burning, burning, burning, people. I went that afternoon and later to to the party, to the festival hundreds of people and kids, you know, 16, 17, 18, Masako are dead. And you saw because I know and when you kill somebody from close contact and some of them try to escape so they're waiting for them to get to the car and they start to shoot. And then when they are in the car they are trapped. And you saw, you know, just just overwhelmed by the amount of bullets. And later on they try to burn the car with the with the, with the bodies animals, real animals. And we cannot have them as a neighbor. the, you know, if they act as there is a jungle law, we have to act also with it because we are in the same jungle. And we cannot have the jungle in our own, you know, own homes. How many Hamas fighters did you see? Who was how many did you see? Myself in my own I. Dozens of them. Yeah, but but I think they were much above 1500 Hamas. I mean, I didn't know that by then. But what we have learned later is that that there were at least 1500 people or more. Some of them, you know, more commando type. The first line of of toll, these some of them a second assailant and even civilians, they call civilians to take gun to come over to the kibbutzim. And, you know, and been and rape and do whatever they want. And and we killed many, many of those, by the way. All of them came with the weapon. General, thank you very much. Thank you very much for full asking and being here with us. Thank you very much. General. Safe did not hold back on criticizing his own government and his own military. He called what happened Saturday a complete failure It's a total collapse. I'm not going to say any excuses. It's a systematic collapse. It's it's the intelligence. It's the whole defense system. The defense system has a lot of elements. You know, it's it's it's defense is the technology. It's the deployment of the army. It's the back up, so many things. It all collapsed so so we cannot, you know, saying that any excuses is not is not acceptable. We have to inquire that. We have to investigate what did we have to learn? A very serious lessons, by the way, in none of the scenarios, we had an ideal the Hamas form for me Still, the organization will act as an army. What we think today is that that Iran is behind it. They're plain is a copy paste of the Fevola. They have a similar playing in in the in the north in all over the Sydney. Exactly the same thing that we have seen here but then again we should have guess or learn or take under a serious assumption that such thing could have happened and within the security lapse prior to Hamas's assault over the weekend has many wondering what will be done to make sure it never happens again. Joining us now is former Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett. Sir, we appreciate your time this morning. We want to look forward and kind of what to expect, what you're seeing. But to start there, I think it's been striking when you listen to Israeli officials, IDF officials, as they try and figure out what happened, including this from a retired general to our colleague last night. Take a listen. We say we feel I feel a shame we fail to to protect them. that are the first line of full Israel of our sovereignty. It's a personal humiliation and national humiliation, humiliation at the same time. And, sir, I think what stuck out to me, you had an interview with Channel 11 News where you're talking about how the international community views Israel right now, said, I don't want their pity. I want them to fear us. I want them to understand our strength. Are you concerned that kind of the the how Israel is perceived has been punctured over the course of the last six days? Oh, absolutely. And whoever that general is is correct there. There's no doubt the first and foremost duty sovereign state is to protect its citizens and it's actually 1500 Israeli citizens were slaughtered by Nazi monsters and go were enough to fix all of this off of our military history teaches us that time and again, there's a limit to our mistakes like brutal barber like Barbaro sound like nine elevenths like the Yom Kippur War were enough to fix it. But now our view is forward into the next stage from collecting ourselves and taking out and killing all the terrorists that entered Israel to the next stage. The offensive stage.
</doc>