<video_id>mAfHpIIPCCM</video_id>
<video_title>Retired colonel on what we can expect Israelis to do if truce ends</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Retired colonel on what we can expect Israelis to do if truce ends.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231129</publish_date>

<doc>
Israel has freed 180 Palestinians from prison over the first four days of the truce, mainly women and minors. Many of them were detained but never charged. Prison service officials say that 30 were released yesterday. CNN's Ben Wedeman is live for us in Jerusalem. Ben, walk us through the diplomatic efforts to release more Palestinian prisoners and detainees. Where is that conversation now? Well, that's part and parcel of the negotiations over the Israeli hostages as well. And, of course, tonight is the last day of the two day extension that was agreed upon. And the diplomats are doing their best to try to work out a formula to extend it. We heard Majid Ansari, the spokesman for the Qatari foreign minister, the Qataris, of course, the linchpin in these negotiations, saying that they are optimistic that a more an agreement will be reached to extend it at least for two days. And, of course, they are now looking beyond the next two days because officials negotiators say that the number of women and children currently being held in Gaza will be exhausted after two days. And then it's going to be a question of how do you deal with the civilian men and the Israeli soldiers who are in Gaza? And our understanding from the foreign ministry spokesman is that the next phase is looking at civilian Israelis being held inside Gaza. And we've seen, for instance, yesterday William Burns, the head of the CIA, was meeting with Qatari, Egyptian and Israeli officials in Doha. Clearly, they're looking beyond this phase where the focus is on releasing women and children in Gaza. And, of course, the similar release of detainees and prisoners held in Israeli jails. But at the moment, there's still is no agreement for an extension. So there always is that risk if no agreement is reached. If fighting could begin again, of course. Ben Wedeman, thank you so much for that update. And right now, negotiators are racing to try to extend the truce between Israel and Hamas. The current deal expiring just hours from now. This is more hostages arrive in Israel after being released by Hamas. Two sources telling CNN that at least one American hostage is expected to be handed over in the exchange today. Let's get more now with CNN's M.J. Lee. She's live for us at the White House. M.J., tell us what you're hearing from the Biden administration. Well, Brianna, the White House is certainly not commenting right now on CNN's earlier reporting that an American is expected to be one of the hostages freed today. We are, of course, still waiting for that day. Six group of hostages to be released. If that were to happen, it would mark the second time that an American citizen is released during the course of this truce. But just to remind you what the White House had initially said, they were hoping for and expecting was for three Americans to be released as part of the initial group of 50 women and children. Of course, we saw Abigail adorn the four year old Israeli American release on Sunday, but no word whatsoever from the White House so far on the two other women that were supposed to be released as a part of that initial 50. So we are still waiting for those hostages to be released. And we will learn whether one American woman ends up being a part of that release. But again, no comment on that right now from the White House. Part of this agreement, M.J., is that the International Red Cross is supposed to get access to to check on the hostages that are still in Gaza, and that has not happened. Hamas has not allowed that. How is the U.S. responding? Yeah, Brianna, a part of the deal really was that the red Cross officials would be able to go in and check on the hostages that are still being held in Gaza, get a sense of how they're doing and really be able to report back on the status of some of these hostages. And that has not happened yet. And we know that U.S. officials are among those that are pushing for this to happen because it was a part of the agreement. Of course, a lot of people are keen to get a better sense of how these hostages are doing, their conditions, their whereabouts. Really, we have so little information to work with right now. Our understanding and our reporting is that even though that does mark a violation in the agreement, that it's not at the point where that is about to derail this deal, that it is still going to go on as long as hostages continue to be released. But we saw a statement from the Red Cross president saying that they are ready to go in, but that they can't really forcibly do that unless they get permission to do so. Basically, they were saying if they sort of force their force, their way in to try to check on these hostages, that that could end up actually endangering them. So that's just one more reminder of the sort of dangerous and tenuous circumstances that we're talking about here. Yeah, certainly alarming. And obviously, officials want to get some information about those who are still in Gaza. M.J. Lee live for us at the White House. Thank you for us. Meantime, according to senior administration officials, the U.S. has urged Israel to be more precise in targeting Hamas in Gaza, especially in the south, where many civilians were told to flee for safety. The Palestinian Ministry of Health in the West Bank says that nearly 15,000 people have been killed since October 7th. Tens of thousands more have been injured. Let's bring in CNN military analyst, retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton to discuss. Colonel, if Israel agrees to this U.S. suggestion of a more targeted approach, what does that actually look like? So, Boris, there are a lot of different aspects to this. And precision is kind of in the eye of the beholder. What you're talking about here is when you look at the Israeli forces, the light blue is where their clearing operations have taken place. They're looking at the northern part of Gaza and the central part of Gaza, kind of all around Gaza City. The dark blue shows that the furthest this is the furthest point of advancement for the Israeli forces. Now, when you talk about precision strikes, let's do it. Let's take a quick look at this video right here, because this is something that is not precise. What you're dealing with here is there are certain aspects of this where you can see where they struck certain areas. But all of this has been obliterated. That is an example of not really a precision strike. This is more of a deliberate strike that goes across a wide area. The areas that you're talking about here are ones that, you know, clearly have civilian applications. You see a washing machine right there. You see a hole right here where a bomb crater dragged through this particular building. That's the kind of thing that if you targeted directly, that is a precision strike. But all this rest of this destruction is not emblematic of a precision strike. So precision being in the eye of the beholder. It appears that there's a difference between the US definition of a precision strike and Israeli. Is that a fair assessment? That is a fair assessment because when the Israelis are looking at this, they really have certain they're constrained by some of the weapons that they have, but they are also constrained, by the way in which they employ those weapons. And one of the key things that they're doing is they believe that they need to take out a wide swath of this, these areas, because, for example, if you go into the map of Gaza itself, all of this area right here was ordered to be evacuated. And the reason for that is because of the strikes that we saw in the example of the video in Khan Yunis. The rest of Gaza is also subject to these kinds of strikes, and that can really result in a lot of civilian casualties, even more than the 15,000 or so that may have been killed during this period. Colonel, let's go back to that initial map, because we're a few hours away from this sort of temporary truce potentially expiring there. Officials that are working to extend it right now. But if it does wind up expiring and hostilities resume, where do you see that playing out? So let's take a look right here at these areas right here, of course, where the Israelis have a presence We can expect them to do is move into these areas right here, into Gaza City, basically taking out every single thing that they can find in in these areas. They can do that potentially. They can also come in this way and cut off the any retreat by Hamas from here into the south. The southern area is one in which they are hoping the Israelis are hoping to have kind of an area where they can put a lot of the civilian population. They've actually offered an area up as kind of a safe haven. But that is something that is very small, very small area near Khan Yunis. And it is an area that is really not conducive to keeping people there for a long time. And it's also not conducive to allowing for further military operations in this area, because you could find a lot of Hamas fighters in an area like this, as well as who is Israel has kind of double challenges in this in this particular situation when it comes to humanitarian aid. I want to go back to the video of Khan Younis, because this, I think, underscores the point that there is immense need among the civilian population in different parts of Gaza. Obviously, this is just one example. What happens to the flow of humanitarian aid and the aid that's already in Gaza once hostilities resumed? So the aid that already is has been sent into Gaza is at risk of being destroyed and stockpiles that they have anything that could be used, food stuffs, you know, clothing during the cold months of the year, all of these kinds of things. Shelter obviously, with this kind of stuff you see. But that could all be eliminated. And Khan Yunis was an area that was not specifically set aside for military operations. It was supposed to be in a safer part of Gaza. And you see what's happened to that already. Now, Colonel Cedric Clinton, always appreciate the perspective again. Right now, the temporary truce set to expire in a matter of hours. Officials are working to extend that as we speak. Thanks so much for the perspective, as always. You bet.
</doc>