<video_id>QkW0Xf3b3LQ</video_id>
<video_title>Retired colonel: This is the best option to respond to the killing of US troops in drone strike</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Retired colonel This is the best option to respond to the killing of US troops in drone strike.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240129</publish_date>

<doc>
We continue to follow the breaking news out of the Middle  The U.S. is working to identify exactly which militia group carried out a deadly drone attac on a small U.S. outpost in Jordan that killed th troops and injured more than 30  This happening near the border with Syria and Iraq. And joining me now to talk about CNN military analyst and retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton and former Middl East negotiator for the State Department, Aaron David Miller. Colonel, I guess let me go to yo Your reaction to this deadly attack on U.S. tr There have been these moments that we've seen over the last several weeks where these Iran backed militias have been wreaking havoc, been a to U.S. forces in the region. Obviously, this time it's much more serious and it ma bring about a U.S. response. Yeah, I think it certainly will, And good to be with you again. This is a really serious escalat at this point and what it has done because of the deaths of at least three American service members and the injuries of 30 more 30 p soldiers, it is clearly raising the ante here. And the group that did this, whichever one it was, is clearly asking for a response from the U.S. And what that, of course, means. It remains to be seen. But one of the key suspects here is probably Kataeb Hezbollah, the group in Iraq. That is an Iranian main Iranian proxy there. I could be one of the other Iranian proxies, but it clearly points to a possible escalation in that direction. And before we go to Aaron, Colonel, just a quick follow up. Can you tell us more about this outpost known as Tower 22 in Jor and the military installations that are located in that general area? This sounds a bit of a remote ou and I wonder if it raises the qu about security at some of these installations w forces may be vulnerable to this sort of thing. Yeah, it certainly does raise a lot of security questions and, of course, force protection, as we call security in the military, is a key and dominant mission requirement forces there. But this base, Tower 22, is right near the base of our co Which is in Syria. So it's tower 22 is right on the Jordan Syria border, but it's also close to the what they call the tri point where three countries come toget in this case Syria, Iraq and Jor And because of that, it's in a unique position where it can oversee a lot of the smuggling routes that have in there for thousands between all of the different are within Syria and Jordan and Iraq And it is at a very strategic location, has provided a lot of supplies to Al-Tanf, which is the primary base in this part of Syria that has been used against the ISIS forces that we fought against over the last few years. And, Aaron, President Biden has been briefed on the attack. He's released a statement vowing to hold those responsible accoun We're already seeing calls from Republican lawmakers for a strike inside Iran. As a matter of fact, we talked to Congressman Adam Smith at the top of the hour and he said that perhaps some sites in Iran should be considered for some sort of proportionate r What might that do to the situat that obviously has been simmering with a lot of tensions over the last several weeks? I mean, obviously, things could get way more escalated if something like that happens. You know, whether we're on the c Thanks for having insurance. Great, Joe Crowley. Whether we're on the cusp of a regional war or not, I don' We're almost five months in February 7 will be the fifth month of this  And and you're looking at controlled escalation to a large degree across the Israeli-Lebanese bord And even these these attacks against American bases and and troops in Iraq and Syria. I think the administration on th has options that run from bad to And I think there were only two  They're going to respond. Question is, are they going to respond against Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps actual forces in Iraq and or Syria or, as Adam Smith suggested, are they going to risk something that this administration, none of its predecessors have do and that is to strike Iranian as in Iran proper, which for the Iranians is a self-proclaimed red line. Whether or not that proves to be the case, we may actually begin to find ou The other option, of course, is to strike fast boats and Iranian naval ass in the Gulf. But the administration, understa given the regional hotspots that the Israeli-Hamas war has g has a certain amount of risk ave in their own response. I mean, they've responded actually to what, 100 and 6070 a since October, maybe a 10th of those we've resp I think on this one, however, you're going to see some you're going to see some firewor And I think I still think we're  this is not going to trip the US and Iran into a major confrontation. But it certainly raises the stak Colonel, what do you think? Can the U.S. hit Iran without hitting inside Iranian territory as as Aaron is suggesting, and p strike a balance that sends a me without getting things out of co I think it's imperative that the does that, Jim. And, you know, as Aaron was pointing out, this is you know, there are several options here. Most of them are very bad. But the best option of of a bad series of choices is going to be to hit something that is very important to the Ir But it is not something that is strikes at the poor of the regime or at the core of some of their capabilities. But it would serve as a warning  and to something like attacking naval outfits in the Persian Gulf, something l And it kind of goes up to the li But, you know, they could do that or they could stick with hitting the proxies in either Iraq or Syria. But if there is a hand that is h that is revealed for, let's say, the contact from Tehran, that that perhaps directed this  then they have to consider going all that way to send a message to the Iranian while all of this is unfolding, the president had sent the CIA director to Europe in th of reviving these hostage negoti to get some kind of deal going between Israel and Hamas, to simmer things down. I wonder, do you think the Iranians were trying to blow this up? They were trying to have an impact on on this proces What do you think? And could this could this get worse if we don't see a deal reached? Well, it's definitely going to g It's going to get worse before it gets worse, I suspect. But I you know, I usually am pretty knowingly negative on these matt Bill Burns has a very close rela with Mossad director David Barne The Israelis actually, I think, are under an enormous a of pressure, rising pressure from the hostage families, growing casualties. The IDF is understanding that they may well have reached the l of the most intense kinetic phas and a pause two months, which the Israelis could resume against the Hamas leadership, would, in fact, to do a couple o It would allow a surge, not a dribble of humanitarian as which is badly needed in the Gaz It would free the hundred plus hostages that r and the return of the 20 or 30 that the Israelis believe are no longer living either. Killed on October 7th, their bodies taken to Gaza to trade for Palestinian prisone or died in captivity. I think it would offer some resp badly needed. Will, what's happening in in with respect to this attack in t derail that? I don't think so. I think if Hamas and the Israeli both want a pause, then the U.S. is well-positioned, I think, right now to try to del But remember, Middle East negotiations only have two speed Jim, is slow and slower. So this may take some time. All right, Colonel Leighton, Aaron David Mi thanks so much to both of you. Really appreciate the insights on an important night. A lot of critical things happening, I think, in the next couple of d ahead. We'll stay on top of it. Really appreciate that. Thanks s
</doc>