<video_id>C7ROkhm2c5E</video_id>
<video_title>Retired colonel points out key difficulty Israeli troops would face in Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Retired colonel points out key difficulty Israeli troops would face in Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231012</publish_date>

<doc>
While the Israel Defense Forces say that they are currently conducting what they're calling a large scale strike on terror targets belonging to Hamas in Gaza, that is, the top US diplomat is in Israel. And the aircraft carrier Gerald Ford has now moved into the region as Israeli forces are mass along the border. With Gaza. And there's so many questions now happening of what comes next. And the real question is how could the next phase of this conflict unfold? I want to bring in CNN military analyst and retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton. Also, actor James Clapper is also back. He's a retired Air Force lieutenant general, Colonel Leighton, let's begin with you because I try to understand, what do we know about where the Israeli troops are moving and then what might be coming? Laura, that's a great question. Tonight, we have about 300,000 Israeli reservists that are actually deployed on the border. And so where are they actually well, this is probably a pretty good indication right around all of these areas. Right here is where you will find Israeli troops concentrated and what are they concentrating with? Well, equipment like these tanks right here, they have tanks, armored personnel carriers and other equipment that they can potentially use to go into Gaza. And that, I think, is going to make a big difference in what they could potentially do with some kind of ground incursion on their part It's hard for most people to imagine just how densely populated Gaza is. I mean, just we've heard about it. We've been hearing about comparisons that are drawn. Tell me about the impact of that on the next phase of a potential ground incursion. Yeah, that's a very interesting area as well, Laura, because the most densely populated part of Gaza is the city of Gaza itself. So that's this part right here that has over 25,000 people per square mile. Other areas like North Gaza, Darryl Paula Khan Yunis, which is a major refugee camp, and Rafah, have less population densities, but still everything in Gaza is basically with little bit of an exception. 10,000 people or more per square mile. So you think of a lot of people that are packed into a very small area. And just by comparison, there are places that have higher population density per square mile around the world, but Gaza has more populations density per square mile, about 21,000 people per square mile in the urban areas compared to Tel Aviv, Los Angeles or here in the Washington, D.C. area. Wow. When you look at that comparison, it really drives home the point of just how densely populated and also what would take place if you had troops moving into those areas. This is civilians we're talking about in those areas in particular. And so the US has moved assets into the region. What role could US firepower play, if any, going forward? Well, there are a lot of things that we would have to contend with here, and one of them are the dense streets. So you look at how narrow things are. This is what General Clapper and I would call battle damage assessment. Perfect video for that. You see what damage has been done here. But look how cavernous all of this is. Look at all the different buildings and look at how difficult it would be to maneuver something through each and every one of these streets. So a lot of things that would be coming into the area include deliveries of munitions like you see here from this Israeli cargo jet. You have the USS Gerald R Ford with its aircraft is 70 to 90 aircraft depending on how they did the carrier battle group. And you've got them coming into the eastern Mediterranean, along with Air Force F-35s and F-15s, as well as A-10s. All of those play a huge part in putting the U.S. presence in this area and making sure that this conflict doesn't go any further than that. It really has already. Colonel Leighton, that's so important to think about and just seeing all that, Director Clapper, I want to ask you about what we've been seeing from Colonel Leighton, because that population density, there are hostages likely in Gaza. You don't know where they are. You see what is ahead and trying to move ground troops into that area. What strikes you as the most difficult aspect of trying to get people out? Well, a very compressed geography, very crowded, urban, urbanized terrain. Urban terrain. And so you wonder how, given that sort of situation, how they're going to move all that heavy equipment, those tanks down these very narrow streets that are in the Gaza. So the question that comes to my mind is what rules of engagement is the Israeli Ministry of Defense and the IDF chief instructing, providing to these the troops? How exactly do they conduct themselves if and when they actually enter enter into the Gaza? They've got so many things to consider here. A very difficult terrain to start within operate equipment, even in a passive environment, which are benign environment, which this is not. They've got to contend with booby traps, IEDs, snipers, and plus the presence of a very dense civilian population. And also to to be considered are the location of the hostages probably dispersed widely, probably underground. So what I wonder about is, you know, the operations order that is being issued to or will be issued to the Israeli attacking force and what the rules of engagement are on how they are to conduct those operations. Mindful of all these factors, there's so much to consider and we're going to continue to unpack. Colonel DeLay, and thank you so much to Clapper.
</doc>