<video_id>C5Rv6c3NP3s</video_id>
<video_title>Retired colonel: Military buildup around Gaza ‘reminiscent of a scene from D-Day’</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Retired colonel Military buildup around Gaza ‘reminiscent of a scene from D-Day’.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231014</publish_date>

<doc>
To go to the ground. I want to turn to someone who is right now fighting on the front lines of this war. Joining me now is IDF soldier Rudy Rockman. Rudy, you are quite literally, as we can see there in your picture. You are called now to duty. What have the last few days been like for you on the ground and where you are in Israel, which, by the way, I should say we are not specifically naming just for security reasons as well. Yeah. Thank you for having me. I mean, it's been almost a week since this started. And as a reservist, I've been out of the Army for over ten years. I'm a civilian. I've done my degrees, I've work, I have families. And all of a sudden on Saturday morning, it was Shabbat and it was so quiet. It was the holiday for the Jewish people. We get called up and we started seeing these videos of what had taken place in the morning and our entire unit got deployed to Vaasa, which is a village on the border of Gaza, which had some of the most horrendous massacres. And unfortunately, we were there for four days rescuing the remaining civilians that remained. But when we got there, it was a massacre. We saw bodies of men, women, children, elderly, elderly, cut up into pieces. The most gruesome images you can ever imagine. And it was very unfortunate to see those things. But thankfully, we were able to secure the area. And since then, we're ready to be deployed to the next location. As you prepare for what this next phase of the war looks like, Israeli officials have been pretty clear that the plan right now, the objective is to wipe out Hamas. But I wonder, do you think that that will require street by street fighting? And are you personally prepared for what that would mean? I mean, the entire army has been prepared for this war. Hamas goal from the very beginning has been to eliminate the Jewish people and to eliminate Israel. It's actually been in their constitution when they built their government saying that they need to eliminate the Jews, not only in Israel, but in entire the world. So when you give a terrorist organization like that weapons to go and fulfill their goals, we know what that looks like, whether it's for Hamas, the Palestinian Authority or Hezbollah or all these different groups that are actually oppressing its peoples and don't actually represents its peoples. If you speak to Palestinians on the ground, whether in Judea and Samaria, the West Bank or in Gaza, they do not like Hamas, they do not like the Palestinian Authority. They're on their, what, 20th year of their four year term. These are oppressive regimes that are controlling their people and not only attacking Israeli civilians. The forcing Palestinians to also be caught into this conflict. Israelis do not want to see either Israelis die or Palestinians die. The majority of us are innocents, and this is not a war between the people. Let me make it clear the Jews are not fighting the Muslims and the Israelis are not fighting Palestinians. We're fighting Hamas, which is oppressing both Israelis and Palestinians. Are we ready? We are ready. But we also need to not only look at the what is happening, we need to understand why it is happening. And this really started with the West pushing narratives of dividing Israelis and Palestinians. The reality is that there is no future without Palestinians and without Israelis. Neither of us are going to disappear. So I hope that when this settles, we can learn from this entrance on this conflict together. It's an important point. And and I think so many people share your hope that that if there is an end to this, hopefully there is that It's one that is obviously a lot more peaceful. But as we sit here, there's so much concern right now about the 1 million or so Palestinians who are being told to flee the northern part of Gaza right now. I've noted that you've observed in the past that Hamas uses civilian casualties of Palestine as a propaganda tool. But are you worried that this operation carried out by by Israel could ultimately play into Hamas's hands if those civilians are not able to evacuate and many of them end up killed? Absolutely. I don't want to see any civilian killed. You know, for me, you're you're you're a foreigner. You know, your fellow human being. But for me, Palestinians are my cousins. They're my family. So I don't want to see any Palestinians killed. And I'm glad that they have at least 24 hours to be able to evacuate. Israelis have less than 24 seconds to be able to evacuate when they're being fired on. But when you look at people in Gaza, I really hope we can minimize the casualties because none of us want to see anybody dead. We want to remove Hamas. So it can stop being a threat both for Israelis and Palestinians. And in order to transcend this conflict, it's not just about creating peace. It's about creating justice. There's injustice both for Israelis and both for Palestinians. And there's one land and one land that we can both live on. But in order to get there, we have to stop these zero sum game narratives that are educating people that in order to be pro-Israel, you have to be anti-Palestinian. Or in order to be pro-Palestinian, you have to be anti-Israel. The reality, if you're anti, either you're anti both because we both belong in this line and we will both be here eternally. You mentioned that you've been out of the Israeli military for about ten years. Is there anything in your experience that compares to what you are about to go into and how long are you expecting this conflict to last? Yes, I got out of the Army in 2013. So in 2012 there was an operation on the border where we almost went into Gaza shortly after I finished the army in 2014. The IDF went into Gaza. So this is not something new, unfortunately, but I hope this will be the last time that this happens. We certainly hope it will be for you and for really everyone in the region. Rudy Brockmann, thank you for joining us and we wish you all the best. Thank you for having me. And for a closer look at what's happening on the developing battlefield I'm joined by CNN military analyst Colonel Cedric Leighton. Colonel Leighton, we're we've been discussing the issue of the the potential refugees that could be made in Gaza if they do flee. Talk to us about what evacuation even looks like in Gaza right now. I mean, a million people in that part of the territory. Where do they even go? Yeah, that's going to be the real question, Avi. And, you know, let's take a look at the evacuation zone as we know it right now, because when you see the types of things that can happen here, you've got this area in the north. There are about 1.1 million people that are in this area at this point. And what's going to happen, Abby, is they are supposed to, according to what the Israelis have told them, go down here toward the Rafah crossing right here, the Egyptian border. So their ability to do this kind of thing is actually going to be limited because they really don't have a humanitarian corridor coming through this way. And can you give us a sense of the distance here or the distances both in space up here and how far they would need to travel? Yes. So basically, we're talking about 25 to 30 miles down this way. It's a very small place. Gaza is about 140 square miles total, a total population, about 2.2 million people. So it's pretty dense in terms of its population. And what they're going to have to do in a case like this is not only go through these areas, but they're no safe zones in any of these areas. And when you go through these areas which are less densely populated than the northern area, there are less services there, less there's less of an ability to care for people. And if they don't get this crossing opened, they won't be able to really stay in this area for a long period of time because it's going to be a place where they don't have living facilities, they don't have water, they don't have sanitation or any of those things. I want to talk now about as what the build up that we're seeing of Israeli troops around Gaza. As you can see, it's there basically surrounding Gaza. And then just to show our audience here, these are some pictures of just the heavy machinery that is that is part of that build up when you look at this as someone with a military eye. Tell us what you're seeing and what does it tell us about what the Israelis are preparing for? So this is kind of reminiscent of a scene from D-Day back in 1944 when Eisenhower was talking to his paratroopers before they launched that invasion. This is what units do. The commanding officer will talk to the units. They will go out. They will deploy in forward positions. You see the Merkava tanks coming through and armored personnel carriers call the tanks right there. They're Israeli made. They've been in service since 1979 in the Israeli army. They've got radio equipment, they've got their rifles, they've got ammunition. They are ready to go. These people are well-trained. They're ready to go. And they will deploy to forward positions that are right near the Gaza border. Obviously, this has been a week now of really intense bombing in Gaza. And I just want to give our audience a sense here of how this compares to another previous conflict that lasted 50 days, almost the same number of bombs dropped in that time. And the dust, the death toll here. Colonel Leighton, what can we expect? Really, this is 50 days versus six days. We're almost at the same place. As we go forward, what can we realistically expect in terms of the toll that this will all take? I'm afraid it's going to be a very heavy toll and this could be an exceptionally gruesome war. All wars are gruesome, but this one, because of the close quarters, because of the urban combat that inevitably going to happen through the narrow alleyways of Gaza City and other places like that. I'm afraid that this death toll is going to rise considerably. There are ways to mitigate that. Israel says it's trying to do that. The problem is, is that Hamas will use innocent civilians as human shields in this scenario. And that's something that has happened in other places in Iraq. It happened in Afghanistan. It happened. This is the kind of thing that we can expect. if this isn't stopped, we are going to see a situation where the forces will meet and there's going to be a major increase in this death toll. Yeah, I think we we just have to be clear eyed about what we are facing in this region going forward. It's going to be gruesome. Unfortunately. Colonel Leighton, we appreciate you joining us on all of that.
</doc>