<video_id>SBtJMBIG-n4</video_id>
<video_title>See what Trump said about US involvement in Israel-Hamas war</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\See what Trump said about US involvement in Israel-Hamas war.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231110</publish_date>

<doc>
Former President Donald Trump now suggesting the U.S. should take a hands off approach to the Israel-Hamas war. Here's what he said during an interview with Univision on Thursday when asked how America might help stop the civilian killings in Gaza So you have a war that's going on and you're probably going to have to let this play out. You're probably going to have to let it play out because a lot of people are dying. There is no hatred like the Palestinian hatred of Israel and Jewish people. And probably the other way around also I don't know. You know, it's not as obvious, but probably that's it. All right. Let's bring in CNN's Max Foster, who is live from London. Max, always wonderful. To see you. Trump also said Israel needed to do a better job of public relations, and he pointed to this rash of pro-Palestinian protests in the U.S. and obviously earlier in all of this. He went after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for not being prepared. What what is your sense of what's going on here? Well, I think that clip, you know, if you move away from a lot of, you know, how he says it and you know specifically what he's saying and what he means, which is what I try to do with Donald Trump when it comes to international policy, at least it's pretty significant. What he's effectively saying is, you know, he doesn't see if we look back at his previous tenure as well and how he played that out and what he's saying here about this Middle East crisis, it's like he doesn't see America as that international policeman, which actually the rest of the world has relied on for decades and decades and decades. So focusing more on American problems which a lot of Americans will relate to. But outside America, that does have a huge impact because you and I are talking a lot about this new world order that China and Russia want to create America pulling back for the international stage and saying they're not going to get involved in like crises like the Middle East does create a vacuum. And you know who's going to step into that? So it has huge repercussions. That little soundbite for me when I when I look at it and if he does get into power, are we going to see America less president on the international stage? So certainly militarily, it seems. Yeah, honestly, it's really, really interesting. I'm thinking about how Vladimir Putin is backing off of Israeli support for Israel that he previously had in the context of this. And Trump does have a way of picking up on things that are going on in the electorate and really putting his finger on things as uncomfortable of a reality is that might be he does have a really strong nose for it. And it's interesting to me that this is what he's picking up. Let's also, Max, talk about Nikki Haley, because in the Republican primary debate, she did seem to gain more ground there. She's sort of becoming the person who is first in the race for second place But she did make this statement about Vivek Ramaswamy on the stage because the two of them really tangled. Take a look at what she said. I am telling you, Putin and President Xi are salivating at the thought that someone like that could become president. They would love to come back to the mat. What's your your take away from there? I mean, what what does the international community think, if anything? I mean, are these two known on the national stage? What's what's the impression? Well, you know, people know about international policy, certainly know about Nikki Haley. She is this sort of towering figure. She's got a lot of experience and certainly stands out in that sense from the in the line up with all the other candidates. But if you're not into international policy, I don't think you would necessarily know who she is. People aren't watching these debates in big numbers at all here because Donald Trump isn't involved and they wonder why they're taking place, that they're not learning about her there. I think you really need to be looking at running a swarm if you're talking about international profile because he is a big deal and tick tock. My kids will show me tick tock with him in them. Very serious and they never show me tick tock from Nikki Haley. And let me just say that, I mean, in terms of profile, I would say he's the only person my kids and their friends to pick out in that entire lineup. Apart from Trump. That is wild and extremely, extremely interesting. the fake one after Nikki Haley's daughter over tick tock. So the fact that people overseas know him for being on tick tock. Okay. Well, it's not necessarily his own profile. I mean, it is that as well. It's also people just picking up clips from the debates and they're always about him and they're the ones that go viral over here. I guess that is kind of the what he set out to accomplish. Max Foster, thank you as always, my friend. Have a great weekend.
</doc>