<video_id>FAPu4FLd2pk</video_id>
<video_title>See what it looks like at Egypt-Gaza crossing where anger is growing</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\See what it looks like at Egypt-Gaza crossing where anger is growing.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231021</publish_date>

<doc>
That's a humanitarian aid that we're supposed to have already gone into Gaza t Well, now cross the Egyptian bor within the next 24 to 48 hours, supposedly in about 200 trucks which carrying dire humanitarian aid water and food and medicine are just sitting there just a short distance away from the tens of thousands of Pa civilians, innocent civilians who desperately need it. The United Nations calling this a difference between life and death. CNN's Clarissa Ward is in Cairo, for us. And Clarissa, officials say road repairs were needed before the crucial aid could pass through. Is that really the only reason f 13 day long delay so far, No, Jake, it's not. We were actually at the Rafah bo crossing today. The U.N. says there's a number of other i firstly, the issue of the Israel wanting to verify everything that's in those trucks to make sure there's no weapons  and they need to come up with some kind of a mechanism to But that takes time. How would they do that? Where would they do that? The second issue, they say, is that they don't want this to be a one off of just 20 trucks going in and they want to have an agreeme in place for a sustained, continuous humanitarian corridor. They're worried potentially that their trucks and their work could get attacked or mobbed if it's just that one, one sort of shipment or movement of tow trucks. All of this, though, Jake, is really coming down to the wir now with steel stocks about to r in a matter of days and anger getting ever, ever hig Take a look. For days, they have been waiting more than 200 trucks full of aid desperately needed in Gaza, but stuck on the Egyptian side of the Rafah border crossing. U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres hope to be here for a much needed diplomatic win as quickly as possible. Instead, he found himself in the midst of a protest. His remarks drowned out by the c People are chanting over and ove with our blood, with our souls. We will defend Palestine There's a huge amount of anger, a huge amount of emotion, much of it directed at the West. We need justice. We're need justice. And much also at Western media, who people here feel have favored Israeli voices over Palestinians where you a protester starts shouting at me. We invite her to do an interview When a thousand plus Palestinian babies die, you don't feel the same You don't feel the same as when I tell you one of your own has died. But these are our own and it is unfair. And Egypt will stand with Palest All Western journalists are talking for Isra If the United Nations standing for Israel, all these international institut are standing for Israel, who is there for the Palestinian And don't call it a war? The jargon is even more infuriat So the war there not equal footi It is not a war. For many, it is deeply personal. Palestinian man holds up his ID. I can't contact with my family, their families. On the other side, I have seven sister and my fathe My mother grandmother, uncles. All my family is there. I can contact with them. I don't know everything okay? I don't know if they are okay or As Egyptian soldiers stand by, the demonstrators get more a Protests are normally illegal he But today, the Egyptian presiden called on people to take to the  So this is rapidly becoming a very chaotic scene. Now, They're trying to get the secretary general out of her We were ordered back onto the bu and escorted out through the crowd, back to Rush  where piles of aid sit by the ru so close to where they need to b but held back, the U.N. says, by complications over how to monitor the trucks that e and how to establish a continuous humanitarian corrid When you saw the anger of those protesters, most of it leveled at Israel and the U.S., but also at the international co for failing to stop the situatio What's your response? I think what's important to say is that we are doing everything  engaging with all the parties to make sure that sooner rather than later, we are able to have not only a first convoy, but continued aid to the population in Gaza. it should be as quickly as possible and with as many as possible trucks to cross in the first few days. But that is little comfort to the people of Gaza, for whom every day, every hour i vital Jake, one of the other sticking points here appears to be the issue of fuel. There has been agreement about food, about medicine, about water, but fuel is desperately needed t the generators that are keeping those hospitals going, that are keeping those refugee centers overwhelmed as they are still go President Biden, as you mentioned in the introduction, said hopefully within 24 to 48 hours, we may start to see movement, but there are still obstacles to overcome. The secretary general saying he desperately need to end this impasse Jake. All right. Clarissa Ward in Cairo, Egypt fo Thank you so much. This.
</doc>