<video_id>h0jZLZa-UQY</video_id>
<video_title>See inside tunnels IDF alleges Hamas used under Khan Younis</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\See inside tunnels IDF alleges Hamas used under Khan Younis.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240111</publish_date>

<doc>
As we've very clear here, is sure to be a topic tonight in the debate is Israel how much support the United States is willing to give Israel specifically and how conditional is that support? So much of that war tonight still being waged below ground. And now and it is important right ahead of this debate, CNN has gotten incredible access for the first time going deep inside captured Hamas tunnels. In fact, the first Western television crew allowed to go inside. Khan Younis was our Nic Robertson, and he got a rare look at where hostages were held underground. And as part of this access, which did come from the IDF, it is important that, you know, that CNN did agree to report from Gaza under IDF escort at all times as a condition for journalists to join the embed with the IDF. Media outlets must submit footage filmed in Gaza to the IDF for Security Review. Now, CNN did not submit its final report to the IDF and retained editorial control, but we want to be very transparent with you. Nic Robertson is OUTFRONT with this incredible report that you will see. First, OUTFRONT, Hanh Yunis, a gunner's view, driving in, scouring the landscape for threats, problem for these IDF troops. Enemy is mostly hiding in tunnels. They say the biggest issue is the fact that we are actually maneuvering above ground underground. Golfers who commands Israel's biggest military division ever is adapting. So you use all your senses that you have. You use your vision sensor, you use your field sensor, the smell sensor. You know, he's invited CNN to go deep into the tunnels. We are told this is the heart of Khan Younis, and the hostages are likely underground nearby and that some were held here. This tunnel we're going in here is one where some of the hostages were held, that first round of hostage releases. Some of them came out from down here. So how deep does this tunnel go? Our first time to get up close to what? Shaping this war. We are moving underground. We maneuver underground. We get a reach every each and every militant or each and every terrorist underground. No modern army has had to fight aboveground an underground like this before. How how is that to do it? It's difficult and it's just going to be a very, very hard, long fight to see just how hard. He takes us deeper. So we came down a metal ladder. We've come down one flight of stairs. We're going down a second flight of stairs here. It's a double flight, it looks like. And down here, command and control was running all the way down. It's a deep, deep system. How deep are we underground, do you think, right now? At the moment, we are more or less between 10 to 15 meters underground. 10 to 15 meters. And now we're going down another level, down more steps about to go down again. Another level. So my head keeps banging off the roof. What are we looking at here? This is a small room, okay? With some kind of air ventilation system and ventilation system. This goes up and boom, metal frame around the door. These metal frames, this can be as much as this is a small room. This is how the different cages that they put the kidnaped. So they were held in cages. In cages you hidden and utterly cut off and found here. You really can't hear anything. What's going on in the outside world now? We must be 20 or 30 meters down. We're almost 20. Almost 20. So they have tunnels three times as deep as this time. What's clear here? The money, planning and preparation invested for a long siege with 20 meters underground here, 20 meters. And there's a fully flush toilet. And it's even painted a nice place for a light bulb. And light switches the tiles. The labyrinth keeps going. Okay, now it's so low, we're getting down on our knees to get through. All right. Yeah. Gold for us. Pauses, lays out his path to victory underground. It's Hamas, and we have to reach this Hamas core to finish them off. But those Palestinian people aboveground are also dying. So I understand that. I understand. That's why we're trying to do it as fast as we can. Yesterday, there were mortars and rockets fired from north of Gaza to the southern state of Israel into the civilian part of Israel. So as long as those rockets are coming out of northern Gaza, the people of the south who have moved to the south can't go back to the north as long as we haven't carried out our mission all the way, as long as we haven't finished this this mission, I don't think we will leave here. We had back half an hour underground. We've seen only a fraction of this war changing labyrinth gold versus challenge. Find all the others. All right, Nic, 65 feet underground where you are, it just even comprehend that your head hitting the ceiling. I mean, it's amazing you were even able to withstand that, to experience that yourself. But when you're down there, how is it that the IDF says or knows that they're so close to Hamas hostages in those tunnels or in tunnels next to them and yet isn't able to get them out? And that's the that's the difficult thing. How do you fight the battle when you're fighting in several dimensions? You know, I said to him, normally in a battle you would outflank your enemy. You get around the side of them. But down there, he said, you know, we don't even know we can be standing on top of them. They can be underneath us. So we've got to try to fight in all these different dimensions. But they do have good intelligence that's part of the picture. And in that tunnel, at least, they were able to extract DNA evidence, blood hair of the previous of the hostages that actually been held down there. So there's a lot of technical equipment use as well.
</doc>