<video_id>ss0ASA9mcQ8</video_id>
<video_title>See what life looks like in southern Gaza for evacuees</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\See what life looks like in southern Gaza for evacuees.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231017</publish_date>

<doc>
Aid groups are warning of an imminent public health crisis in Gaza if supplies of water and fuel remain cut off. CNN's Thelma Abdul-Aziz has more on the growing desperation inside Gaza. And a warning some images in her report are graphic This is what life looks like in places. Israel told families to flee towards for their safety, where constant bombardment has reduced homes to rubble and wiped out entire families. The survivors say, I lost all my relatives. 15 people, this man says. We were not on the front line or anything. We were just sitting at home. What have we done wrong? The U.N. warns there are no safe places. About half a million people fled here to southern Gaza after an evacuation order by the Israeli military But families desperate for refuge are still trapped in the war zone. The dead and injured flooding a health care system on the brink. Civilians are caught in the crossfire. With the death toll mounting, just over a quarter of those killed are children, according to Palestinian officials. And a week long siege is strangling the enclave, the U.N. says, amid fears food, fuel, water and medical supplies may soon run out. Some 2 million people are crammed into this. 140 square mile territory. Now, many of them pushed into an even smaller corner of the enclave. About half the population are children. There are not enough shelters to house the sheer number of civilians and even those who do find spaces in overwhelmed schools turned refugee centers. It is little comfort to the youngest victims. For Shadi Hamid. There is no one to protect us. This little girl says there's no one to come save us. How are we supposed to live? How? Answer me. Prime Minister Netanyahu has vowed to annihilate Hamas after a terror attack by the group left. 1400 killed in Israel. But with Hamas so deeply embedded within Gaza's population, rights groups fear a bloodbath. What we're seeing right now, the direction that Israel is going to be is going in. They have said they want to destroy Hamas, but their current trajectory is going to destroy Gaza. Hamas does not answer to the people of Gaza. No elections have been held here since the group seized power in 2007. Still, it is these residents that will pay the price. And with a potential ground incursion expected not cost is unfathomable. Some Abdel Aziz, CNN, London. Joining me now from Tel Aviv is Jonathan Conricus, international spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces. Colonel, good to see they can be with us. Good morning. Thank you for having me. It's a pleasure, sir. I wonder if you could just comment on a report we've just received from Palestinian sources within Gaza that there were Israeli airstrikes around the Rafah crossing in the south, killing at least 28 people. Also, airstrikes in the region of Khan Yunis, which, as you know, is in the center of Gaza. These are all areas which the Israelis urge the Palestinians to head towards, to be out of danger for Israeli operations that were taking place in the north. What more can you tell us about those airstrikes in the south? Yes, the combat operations continue. We continue to hunt Hamas operatives to attempt to degrade their military capabilities, whereabouts locations, tunnels and rocket launchers and of course, other things that are part of this war that has been forced upon us. And I am not aware of any strike specifically in those areas, but they could have happened. And anyhow, we continue to operate and strike Hamas targets as we have defined before. And we try to do that according to the law of armed conflict. And, of course, to minimize civilian casualties. And just as we have you talked about Rafah, what is the situation there as far as you know, with regards to that border crossing? Actually, being open so that all the trucks on the Egyptian side of the border, trucks filled with humanitarian assistance, will be allowed into Gaza because right now the people's lives are counting on that aid being delivered Yes, I know that an attempt. First of all, I am aware of lots of discussions, report and quite a lot of conflicting information about that. And sorry to say, I don't have clarity myself. The only thing I can say is that the last attempt that I am aware of that we were involved in was three days ago when there was an attempt to evacuate foreign nationals, Americans and others, which failed because Hamas refused to open the gate. Other than that, I don't have any updates on the situation. We understand the complexity and perhaps there will be news later in the day about the Rafah and about other issues pertaining to humanitarian needs. Confusion in war, I guess comes with the territory, sir, but we appreciate whatever you can do to clarify. We've just had the news as well on on Monday that the US President Joe Biden will visit Israel on Wednesday. There is an imminent ground operation in Gaza. Does the President's visit to Israel, does that complicate or delay that ground incursion in any way? Not as far as I understand. And I think what I understand from public statements, the statements made by Secretary Blinken, the president is here to show his support for Israel and that he stands with Israel, our right to defend ourselves. And, of course, any enhancement of our operations is part of our right to defend ourselves. I think the president also said that the Hamas needs to be destroyed, and that is exactly our military aim. We want to dismantle Hamas and make sure that never again will any terrorist organization in Gaza have the ability to perform the atrocities that Hamas did. On the 7th of October. With regards to the military operations and the exodus from the north of Gaza to the south that we're just talking about months ago, that did seem fairly clear message to Hamas that a big operation was on its way. Can you say how long and specifically where these operations will take place in the north around the Gaza City, and what are the risks facing those who stayed in that area? And is there a danger of telegraphing your punches, if you like, to Hamas militants? What's coming down the line? Yeah, three good questions in one lesson. It is generally not wise for a military to be advertising its intentions. And we are aware of the fact that we have just advertised our intentions by telling civilians in northern Gaza to go south. Why have we done that? Because we want civilians out of fighting and we don't want them to be killed. So there is a balance here between achieving a military objective and minimizing civilian damage. And in this case, which is very evident and you cannot argue with it. We have chosen to you know, that the sanctity of life and the helping Palestinian civilians to go south and not be stuck in an area that there will be significant combat activities. There is a risk and we will have to mitigate this risk with the tactics, the weapons and the time that we use when a knife will operate. And there is tremendous, you know, desire in Israel to see Hamas defeated, to see the scourge and the terror gone from Gaza. But Israelis, of course, also want the IDF to operate it smartly and in a way that doesn't expose our troops to undue danger in an environment that already is among the most dangerous on any battlefield. And very quickly, one of the other reasons why President Biden is coming to the region, coming to Israel, and the secretary state, Antony Blinken, has been there is concerned that this this conflict with Hamas in Gaza could spread and erupt into a much bigger regional confrontation with actors. For Iran, in particular, warning of, if there are any more Palestinian civilians who are killed, if this continues, that there will be consequences for Israel. What's what's your response to that? Well, I read it the same way. I mean, I see that President Biden and Secretary Blinken and many American statements are made exactly in order to prevent a regional escalation. The common denominator or let's say the reason or the power that could escalate the Middle East into regional escalation is Iran. They have their tentacles. They have their proxy organizations around Israel, Hezbollah in the north, Hamas, Islamic Jihad in the south, and lots of proxies in Syria and Iraq. And if they decide so, then maybe they would want to throw more of their properties towards Israel. That would be unwise and definitely not something that would serve the interests of the people of the region. Maybe it would serve Iranian interests, but definitely not the people of the region. And I think that's a very strong message that the U.S. is delivering to Iran. If you're thinking about doing it, don't. What we are saying is we are prepared along our northern border in the south, whoever threatens us and whoever challenges our safety and security of our civilians, we will defend and we will make sure that they don't have the ability to do so. Colonel Corica, thanks so much for being with us. We appreciate your time. Thank you. Good morning.
</doc>