<video_id>8NklBbp7BMI</video_id>
<video_title>Should Congress set conditions on Israel aid? Hear what this representative thinks</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Should Congress set conditions on Israel aid Hear what this representative thinks.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231202</publish_date>

<doc>
Well, the truth is over. The fighting between Israel and Hamas is back, and so is the nightmare for innocent civilians. Israel says that it's using. Q R codes now and interactive maps to tell Gazans where to go. Remember, self-service and electricity are sparse there. National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby was asked on Friday about the number of civilians who have already died since bombing resumed in Gaza, and he would not say if the Biden administration has seen more deliberately targeting from Israel. Secretary of State Antony Blinken had said that he wanted to see Israeli plans to protect civilians before fighting resumed. This is his latest comment. I have seen that information start to get out. I saw the plans that Israel has in a multiplicity of ways to do everything possible to protect civilians, including making sure that they have the information they need and that there are ways to accommodate them. And this is going to be very important going forward. And it's something we're going to be looking at very closely. All right. Now the US is watching, but is there anything more that the US could be doing? One option is adding conditions to any aid in that the US provides to Israel. Some Democratic senators support it. House Republicans do not. Now plenty of House Democrats oppose it, too, including Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida. She is on the House Appropriations Committee and she joins me now. It's been a while since we have talked, so it's good to have you on the show, Congresswoman. Thank you very. Much. Want to join you. Thank you. So let's start with why you oppose putting some conditions on the multi-billion dollar package that Israel will most certainly get. Well, I think it's important that we understand here that we are this is this is not a situation where we don't have the ability to communicate with Israel. They are a close ally among our closest. Our intelligence and military leadership are sitting together with Israel side by side every day. That communication is ongoing at the highest levels, all the way up to President Biden. And we are working with them to make sure, as they are already prioritizing, minimizing civilian casualties. It's Hamas that is putting civilians in harm's way, embedding themselves and their headquarters underneath hospitals and U.N. facilities. And I mean, that's where the accountability should lie and making sure that Israel can bring their hostages home. And Hamas released them and make sure that they can eradicate the terrorists. That is what the priority is. Conditioning aid is not something you do in an emergency situation with an ally. So you are right that the the civilians in Gaza would not be in this position. The estimated more than 14,000 who have been killed since October 7th would not be dead if not for the October 7th attack. But if the point that you're making is that the U.S. has been sitting side by side with Israel since the start of this well, since October 7th, I understand that. But since the start of this, there have been those 14,000 plus killed. There have been, according to UNICEF, 5300 children killed. So if it did not inflow, which their decision of targeting before the truce. Why are you confident that there will be anything different now as they move into the south. That there is real? First of all, Israel is held to a much, much higher standard when when at war than any other country on earth. And they have specifically, nearly exclusively in a war time, made sure to notify and communicate in advance with civilians, particularly in this very urbanized environment that they should get out of harm's way. Hamas, the terrorist organization that puts them in harm's way, prevents them from getting to safety. And this is a very dense, urbanized area in which Hamas is not actually spent the funds that they have to protect their civilians. They have said publicly in interviews that they spend their money on their tunnel systems so they can protect themselves. So Hamas is to blame for the harm that is coming to their civilians. But go where when you say that the IDF is warning the civilians to get out of the way. And I should say that the leaflets have been dropped over the cities in southern Gaza that they are focusing on now, but they're using QR codes. We have reported that how unreliable cell phone services, the electricity, the Internet as well. So I don't know what a QR code does. Anybody who doesn't have cell phone service and doesn't have access to the Internet. But if the IDF has told them to move south, where are they supposed to go now? What should happen here is that Hamas should release the hostages. They should cease their attacks. A cease fire that they yet again broke just yesterday, even before it was determined that the truce was not going to continue. This is on Hamas. That's where this conflict was started. They have killed 1400 civilians in an unprecedented attack in Israel. It took 248 women, children and elderly people hostage, most of whom they are still holding on to. Where are the. Victor, I wish you were asking me questions about how Hamas is being held to account. That is, Gaza needs to be freed from Hamas and we already have the ability, thanks to President Biden. We are already communicating. We've gotten dozens and dozens, actually hundreds of aid trucks into Israel, into Gaza. And Hamas skims off the top to make sure that they can reach, fortify, be struck. Those trucks are getting in. Those trucks are getting in after a nearly month long blockade on food and fuel and water and the fuel obviously challenging the desalination plant. But let me ask you about you say that this is on Hamas. Yes. Humanitarian aid for themselves. I understand. That. And again. But here's the question. You say this is Hamas. I understand that the the Israeli government has said that ending Hamas is the goal. I think most states across the world, most countries, can understand that after what happened on October 7th, that is is the goal. But if the goal is to go after Hamas and there are innocent civilians between them, what pressure do you think, if at all, is required or is appropriate on on Israel to prevent the numbers that we saw in the first 45 days of this war? We are with with Israel effectively communicating that it is essential that they minimize civilian casualties, the Palestinian civilians that have been killed as a result of Hamas's brutality it has is devastating and it shouldn't be done. If they don't, then if there's no consequence and Congress is not going to put any conditions on the aid. And this is not advocacy, I'm just saying. What then is the consequence for Israel? What do you mean by if they don't? I mean, we're already in a situation where worldwide, including the U.N., U.N. women and others, have not even condemned Hamas for their attacks, and they haven't condemned them for the brutal sexual violence. I mean, Israel is under a situation where it's me, too, unless you're a Jew. And the higher standard that Israel is held to in wartime when they have suffered a incredibly brutal attack, is why are they inappropriate in an emergency And this disproportionate accountability that is that Israel is being held to when Hamas completely controls the ability to cease to cease the war and releasing the hostages and ending their commitment to eradicating Israel and killing Jews. All right, Congresswoman Debbie, what. In their report? Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, thank you so much for being with me. Good to see you again. Thanks.
</doc>