<video_id>nz7pS3Hwle8</video_id>
<video_title>Sources: Hamas used landlines to avoid detection and plan attack</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Sources Hamas used landlines to avoid detection and plan attack.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231024</publish_date>

<doc>
One big question since October 7th is, is how how did H carry out such a successful, sophisticated if you can call it that, terrorist attack while keeping it all so secret? And today, we're learning that old school technology may have played a major role. CNN's chief investigative corres Pamela Brown, joins us now from  Pamela, what does the intelligen Well, Jake, sources are telling me and my co at Cohen that a small group of H operatives used hard wired phones in the tunnels beneath Gaza to communicate over a period of two years. That's according to intelligence with U.S. officials Now, those old fashion landlines allowed Hamas leaders to communicate underground with  another in secret. They avoided using computers or cell phones in order to keep from being trac by Israeli or U.S. intelligence. According to these sources, and  it worked, Jake. Instead, they held meetings in p among a small group and they stayed off all digital communications. So this partially explains why Israel and the U.S. were caught so off guard by the attack and how 1000 Hamas fighters were able to pour across the bor without being stopped shown here And this propaganda video released by Hamas. Now, all of this communication h in the miles of underground a tunnel system beneath Gaza that the IDF nicknamed the Gaza  You heard the hostage there in the story you just played, Jake, talking about the spiderweb of t That's where apparently these phone lines were hard wired underground. And another way Hamas was able to keep this under the radar is that they kept the planning of the October 7th attack a secret even from other members Only a very small group knew about this mission until just before it was carried Hamas ground unit commanders and were in training for many months and they were kept in a state of general preparedne I'm told, but only found out about the specific plans just a few days before the terrorist attack. And one of the sources said some of their training above ground was observ by Israeli officials, but did not ring major alarm bel The thinking was, I'm told, was, oh, Hamas always tradespeople like this. It didn't look different. But of course, we know now, Jake and Pamela, Israel actually found these hard wired phones in Hamas strongholds in the past, though, Yeah, that's right. Israeli military found a similar of communication system when they raided a city in the northern West Bank over the summer, according to an Israeli official They called this a joint operational command cent and it had hard wired communicat and closed circuit surveillance cameras to give advance warning of Israeli troop movemen So clearly, this is something that has been in their playbook, Hamas has had in their playbook, and they used it to execute this operation, as you pointed out, successfully All right. Pamela Brown, thank you so much. I want to bring in Mark Regev with me here in Tel Aviv. He is the senior adviser to Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, also a former Israeli ambassador to the United Kingdom. Thank you so much for being here I really appreciate it. If Shin Bet, the Israeli security service, if it knows so much about Hamas, why wouldn't they know about these tactics? How could Shin Bet and the IDF not have seen Octobe coming in anyway? So it's clear there was an intelligence failur It's clear we were taken by surprise and we a terrible price for that. What is it, 1400 people killed and more taken hostage? I think we when this is over now we're focused on winning thi and we will win this. But when this is over, there have to be an investigatio and thorough investigation lessons learned. Why was there an intelligence fa Why was it so easy for them to cross over the fence which was supposed to protect us with all the high tech and so fo And why did it take the IDF so long to force them back to the other side and kill the people who had come over to our side? There are all sorts of issues that need to be investigated. In the past, when we've had security mishaps like this, and this is more than a mishap,  a major problem. We've had investigations, we've had committees of inquiry. We've had parliamentary inquirie I'm sure when this is over, when we've won this, we'll have those sort of investi Ultimately, we're going to conti to live here. We live in a tough neighborhood, and we have to make sure we're at the top of our game. And it's clear we weren't. When you heard the freed hostage Yoli Lifshitz. 85 years old this morning, saying this wasn't just an internal intelligence fa There had been warnings in the w before Hamas doing things, the f not strong people calling the security forces, warning the And these complaints, these warn the kibbutzim around they're ign she's speaking for many Israelis I mean, we we pride ourselves on having very good intelligence services. The Mossad has an international reputation. The Shin Bet is the same. And yet here it's obviously we weren't up to par. And I think Israelis expect more and there will be investigations and there will be lessons learne Why do you think Hamas has been releasing hostages? That's four hostages released. Obviously, two of them are Ameri I'm not sure about the nationali of these recent two. Are they Israeli? Yes. They're both just purely Israeli That's what I understand. Okay. Why are they releasing hostages? Because they're under immense pr and their allies are under immense pressure. Look, Hamas wants a cease fire. They hit us. They hit us hard. And now they want a cease fire to protect them so we don't destroy their military machine. But they're not going to get wha We're going to continue keeping up the pressure. We're going to continue to targe And with the international diplomatic pressure on their all we think we can get more people  Do you think they're going to be more hostages released in the next week, two w I can't I can't speak for Hamas, obvious but we'll keep the pressure up in the past over the last wee Pressure has got people out. Keep the pressure up, increase that pressure, make Hamas feel the heat, make their allies feel the heat. You'll get more people out. So last night you told CNN's Kaitlan Collins that Israel is not going to authorize fuel to enter Gaza because it will just fall into Hamas's hands, even if it's meant for the hospi Correct? Meant for humanitarian  Hamas will take it. They control Gaza. Correct. Only then this morning, the IDF chief of staff said it will it will enter fuel, enter Gaza, but only for civilia Then just minutes ago, an IDF spokesperson said no fuel full stop because it will end up in the hands of Hamas. That's three different positions in less than 12 hours, I think. Why? What's going on and what is ther Are you going to end on one of these positions at som So the government decision that has been taken by our security cabinet is we're in favor of humanitaria which is water food and medicine Right. The trouble with fuel and I know that they say they ne for the generators in the hospit and that's a genuine need. Is that the same fuel is taken stolen by Hamas? And as you've said correctly, they control Gaza. The only people with guns, they can take what they want. They take that off for their military machine and they use that for rockets. For rockets and for their underground network of tunnels. Right. For the oxygen in the tunnels, c And we obviously want to deny th But I want you to know, we we put out a statement earlie The IDF, there is actually a hug of fuel inside Gaza today, which Hamas has. Now, if you could tell me give me assurances, guarantees that fuel going into Gaza would  for civilian purposes, that's fi But I don't think anyone can giv that guarantee. And we saw last week, CNN report I remember there were six truck loads, six tankers went in with  And we know for a fact that Hamas hijacked and stole part of that fuel. And so we're dealing with a formidable enemy. There should be no shortage whatsoever for the hospitals in  but Hamas is stealing that fuel from the people of Gaza. Can you clear something up for m Because I really can't get a straight answer on this. There are about five or 600 Amer stuck in Gaza. They've a lot of them are at the Rafah crossing. Right. These are Americans. They have American passports. Some of them are Palestinian-Ame But but, you know, they have homes in Massachusetts They have homes in New Jersey. They've been calling the U.S. State Department. Why can't they get out? So I can give you a clear answer Hamas won't let them out. In many ways, I think Hamas is also keeping them hostage. I remember Secretary Blinken rai that issue. What was it, over a week ago before the president was here, before you were secretary of def It was one of the issues that came up with us and we said from our point of vi we'll do everything we can to facilitate their immediate re but only out of Rafah crossing, because all of your crossings ar and they've been destroyed. That functioning, that's a war z We've had very serious firefight I understand. I'm just said we're we're happy and eager to facilitate their re their exit. That's a promise to the American We're serious about that. But Hamas has decided to play ga with these Americans. But it's not el-Sisi. It's not E It's Hamas. Yes, definitely. Former Ambassador Mark Regev, thank you for your time today.
</doc>