<video_id>9h8FeGqPO7w</video_id>
<video_title>The situation is absolutely ‘apocalyptic,’ says surgeon on his recent trip to Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\The situation is absolutely ‘apocalyptic,’ says surgeon on his recent trip to Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240530</publish_date>

<doc>
British surgeon doctor Nick Maynard is just back from Gaza, where he saw the collapsing health care system with his own eyes. He left Rafah just before Israel's offensive began, and he's joining me here now in the studio. Doctor Maynard, welcome to the program. Thank you very much for asking me. I'm you left and I'm just going to read what you said because you left just as the Israeli incursion began. You told Reuters that you heard bombs and gunfire all over driving through Rafah. The tension was palpable with people evacuating as rapidly as they could. You saw some of that attempt to evacuate in Jeremy's package. There. What did you see? And what is the status of people who just want to get out of the way? So they issued the initial evacuation orders about two hours before we left for the crossing, and we saw hundreds of people rushing out of their I was going to say houses. They're not houses. Of course, these people have been displaced many times. So they were leaving their very temporary shelters, their makeshift tents, their tarps in shelters, gathering their belongings together, going in cars, some of them walking, some of them going on a cart with donkeys and rushing out. And it was very distressing to see them leaving so urgently because that this for some of them, this is the fifth, sixth or seventh time they've done that in the last six months. You were leaving as well. What was it like for you? Is it? I mean, did you get you obviously out safely, but was it dangerous as you were trying to get out? So we we didn't think we were going to get that. We were initially turned away. So we went back to the temple. What we were advised to leave. So there was ongoing discussions between the the medical aid, the Palestinian ground staff and CogAT, the liaison part of the IDF. And so they initially decided for security reasons, we should go back to the house. But then we left again late morning, got to the crossing as the bombings were intensifying. So we were surrounded by bombs going off really virtually nonstop. And there was very difficult decisions to be made about whether we should carry on with our planned departure or whether we should turn around, because it was getting too dangerous. But we did stay and we managed to get out. you were warned in March, actually, before the Rafah operation started, certainly before, you know that if a ground invasion happened, a ground incursion of some sort, it would be apocalyptic. And Gaza's health ministry said in a statement now, particularly after the Sunday attack, there is no hospital in Rafah with enough capacity to take this number of killed and injured, causing confusion amongst ambulance teams on where to transfer them. Give us a layout of what hospitals remain, what don't anywhere near by these places that are, you know, under IDF attack. So? So Rafah is a small town. It has a population of 1 to 200,000 people, normally as it has two hospitals, one government hospital, another hospital which normally has a capacity of about 60 beds, and a small hospital called the Shetty Hospital, which has been in the news a lot in the last few days, which has a capacity normally of 15 one five beds. So they have very limited beds. They've got a bigger hospital between Rafah and Hand, Unesco, the European Gaza Hospital, which I've worked in a lot over the years, which is surrounded by the Israeli ground forces, as very difficult for patients to get that. So effectively, there are no hospitals for these patients to go to. There are some field hospitals have been set up, but the number of acute beds available to take these patients is very, very few. And have you been in touch with any colleagues in the medical profession or anybody in Rafah since you've left, particularly in the last few days? Yeah. I spoke yesterday to a dear friend of mine who's an operating theater nurse who almost to the day a year ago, I was operating within the theaters in European Gaza Hospital. She stayed in Rafah. She and her husband are living there. They don't want to leave. And she said to me yesterday she would rather die, and she expects to die in her home. And she's not going to leave. I haven't been able to get hold of her today and she hasn't answered any message, so I don't know what's happened to her. Half a family has been killed in the last few months. I've got a close friend who's a doctor who's out there, and I've been speaking to them regularly. But the the the words we used a few weeks ago of this being apocalyptic, it absolutely is. There are many people being killed. There are those that have been evacuated, have been forced to go to Al Malaki, which is an area I know well. There are already hundreds of thousands of people there. They've had to accommodate nearly a million extra people. And there is nothing. There almost is a thin stretch of sand and wasteland divided by a road with no facilities at all. So the idea that you can accommodate it in any sort of safe way, another million people, is, is fanciful. You're a doctor, you're a surgeon, and you've worked in Gaza for for some ten years. You've been going back and forth through other wars, presumably. I want to ask you this because you saw in Jeremy Diamond's report that they saw the weapons, they were described as slightly less, huge and powerful, perhaps to try to mitigate civilian damage. These are American made weapons. but from a doctor's point of view, particularly as he said, Jeremy, in a in a densely populated zone, a light weapon, a light bomb, a heavy bomb is going to create a huge amount of civilian destruction. What would you what can you say about the weapons that are used to Gaza has got a population of 2.2 million. It is the most densely populated place in the world. I was there last May operating. I'm a cancer surgeon. I was operating on cancer patients, part of the Map program, and it was the last big bombardment before October the 7th beginning of May. And I was stuck there. They closed the borders and we had to be evacuated eventually. But I witnessed for four days this nonstop bombardment, and it was an incredible demonstration of how precise the bombing can be when the Israeli Defense Force want to do that. They were targeting specific rooms and building specific floors, and there was collateral damage but minimal collateral damage at that time. So I've witnessed firsthand how precise their targeting can be. Move forward to post October the 7th. I was there over Christmas and New Year, and I witnessed I watched the indiscriminate bombing of large populations in the surrounding camps in Daryl Balad, where I was staying for two weeks. So I've witnessed two extremes. I've seen how precision, how precise their targeting can be, and I've seen how indiscriminate it's going to be. And there's no doubt in my mind that what we've seen since October the 7th is indiscriminate killing of large populations, civilian large populations. You know, they deny that every time. And they say over and over again that we are doing our best to minimize civilian. And they say, what do you expect if the Hamas terrorist organization, as they say they're fighting, is using human shields, is using Gazans to to shield themselves from any kind of retaliation or action? What do you say about that? Well, I've I've not witnessed that. I think if it's difficult for me to understand how anyone can claim that killing 35 civilians is a proportionate response to, to, to to events earlier, but you mean 35,000 35,000 people? I've not witnessed what they've describing. And perhaps more importantly than that, my friends and colleagues who I have spoken to daily since October the 7th, have lived out there with them for several weeks and then do not provide any evidence to support that. They would say that they're there. They live in these, whatever the underground or in buildings or whatever. That's what they would say. But it's interesting what you said about witnessing very targeted and witnessing something that's much less targeted. I want to ask you specific specifically in your, you know, your your domain about the health, system. I mean, I can just read you and you'll tell me much more. I mean, Kamel at one hospital, you know, dozens of medical staff is taken to an undisclosed location. Location? That was in December last year. The IDF says takes all feasible precautions to mitigate harm, etc.. Nasser Hospital, February of this year. 70 health care workers in the medical complex arrested by Israeli forces, 80 patients transferred out. They said they had apprehended hundreds of Hamas militants. Al-Shifa hospital. We know what's happened. There is completely, a ruin. They said they were going after Hamas targets underneath and tunnels. did you ever come across anything suspicious? Did you ever ask any of your actually the directors of the hospitals, the people who would be there when you're not there, whether there was any threat from, you know, a militant group using their premises? I did, and I can only really vouch for what I have witnessed. And what close friends and colleagues have said. I've been in these hospitals on many occasions, before October the 7th, but also since then I have never witnessed. I've never seen any evidence of Hamas militants in these hospitals. And my close friends and colleagues, some of whom I've known for nearly 15 years, I've asked them repeatedly, and they've never witnessed any of this. Now, clearly, I cannot provide any evidence of what goes on in any tunnels underneath. I've never seen them. But if you take Shifa Hospital as an example, which I know very well, I. I've been to every square inch that hospital. I've never seen any restricted access at all to any parts of the hospitals. So I've seen no evidence of what they describe.
</doc>