
<doc>
This is the Netzah Yehuda Battalion, an Israeli army unit showcasing their military might. In a promotional training video unavailable for. But the unit has a decades long history of abusing Palestinians in the West Bank, and the Americans know it . A State Department investigation found they had committed gross human rights violations, but this finding never led to U.S. sanctions. Even media reports of possible sanctions outraged Israel in. Bits on Angela Bassett. The whole Qatar. So despite their track record, the Natalie Yehuda Battalion is still receiving American arms and is now operating in Gaza. We tracked down one former soldier from the unit. In a rare interview, he remembers fellow soldiers bragging about their excessive violence towards Palestinians. We've hidden his identity and voice as he fears reprisal. There were some kids throwing rocks in a small village that normally isn't a big deal, but the company commander decided, let's throw them a party. So they took the emergency response team and 20 soldiers. They walked door to door, throwing flashbangs and gas grenades into people's homes as a punishment for the kids throwing rocks. Collective punishment? Yes. Collective punishment. The commander said it was fantastic to see the look on their faces. When we look at those abuses that have happened in that state over the years. There's a chain of command here. Yeah. What responsibility does the battalion commander? The person at the very top. does that commander have for what happened? I think he has all the responsibility. If these commanders don't put their foot down and punish them for their behavior, then they are in fact, condoning their behavior. He told us his years in the battalion changed his outlook completely. He now feels compelled to speak out about the battalion's mistreatment of Palestinians. The officers he's talking about follow a chain of command. What happens under their watch is their responsibility. But despite this, we found some of these same commanders who were in charge when allegations of human rights abuses emerged have been promoted again and again into senior roles in the IDF, using facial recognition technology. CNN found this commander, Lieutenant Colonel Amitai Okasha, now in Gaza, in a senior role running ground operations. Be back in 2019. He ran the Netzer Yehuda battalion Way and was in charge when these soldiers seen him laughing as they beat and humiliate. A Palestinian man and his son both arrested for assisting the killer of two fellow Netanya Yehuda soldiers. That journey to the police station left the father with three broken ribs. Five were later jailed for their actions and their commander, Okasha told investigators. While he condemned the violence, he said deploying the soldiers was necessary to make the killer pay and to create a sense of success among the fighters. He remained as commander and has been promoted since. But Akashi is not the only Netanyahu. The commander with a dark past coming in for them. I'm going to see that it's normal. I'm going to die. This is Lieutenant Colonel Marty Sheva rousing troops before deployment. But just over a year later, soldiers under his command left for dead this elderly Palestinian-American man. Oh, more sad here. Lying on the ground, bound and blindfolded as a soldier watches. On his death, the IDF admitted a moral failure. But no soldier faced charges for his death, and their commander faced only a reprimand. Yet still he was later promoted. Now training Israeli ground troops, preparing to enter Gaza, even featuring in high profile interviews with American media boasting of his soldiers enthusiasm for war, the major concern for most of the soldiers is we're going to have to stop. We asked the man previously in charge of investigating the Netanyahu does abuses for the US government, what he made of these promotions that is very bad news. that shows, first of all, that Israel, that the government of Israel has no intention of holding the Netanyahu to battalion accountable. He says the US is not following their own laws by sending them weapons. Of course, we treat Israel differently, and that really undermines, our human rights advocacy and the rest of the world. The law that Congress passed and our taxpayer funded assistance is going to Israeli units that have committed gross violations of Human Rights Watch this assistance despite the growing evidence of abuse. CNN exclusively obtained the names of three more Israeli units found by U.S. officials to have committed gross human rights violations prior to October 7th. All are still operating, including the Yemen seen here in Gaza in an operation that rescued four Israeli hostages but left nearly 300 Palestinian dead, according to local health authorities. The Israeli military dispute that the toll was so high, such as the death and destruction, mounts. It is U.S. weaponry supporting these units, begging the question for how much longer will Israel's greatest ally choose to turn a blind eye? Katie Pugliese, CNN, London.
</doc>