
<doc>
in Gaza, a peace deal cannot come soon enough. Just in the past 24 hours, we have seen more than 30 people killed in Israeli strikes, including three day old twins and their mother. CNN's Jeremy Diamond has this report. All of us have. How do you console a man whose whole world has been shattered? I'm not a man who, hours earlier, was locked in the warm embrace of his wife and newborn babies, but now cries out in agony, begging to see them one last time. Oh, let us. His new horrific reality is too much to bear. I almost lost his wife and twin babies are dead. Killed in an Israeli strike on their apartment in central Gaza, according to hospital officials. I saw and her brother Oscar were just three days old. The Palestinian ministry of Health says they are among 115 infants born and killed during the war in Gaza. Hours earlier, their mother, Jumana, a pharmacist, was blissfully responding to congratulations and well wishes on Facebook. I feel like it was a miracle. Alhamdulillah sister, everything is going well. I don't know Jumana. I saw an usher now lie here in a room consumed with Mohammed's inconsolable grief. That's for us to. These are the birth certificates, he says. While I was getting them, I received a phone call telling me our apartment was targeted and that my wife and children were at Al-Aqsa hospital. Neighbors are still sifting through the aftermath of that strike. Hospital officials say an Israeli shell hit the building. The Israeli military did not respond to CNN's request for comment. The victims of several other strikes in central Gaza also pour into Al-Aqsa martyrs hospital, and more parents grieve the deaths of their children. How can I live after you, my son? This mother cries amid the grief. There is also anger and exasperation, including from the dead man's father, Adam. The entire unjust world does not care about this. That's all I can say, Hassan says. Just numbers. We are just numbers. But for God, we are martyrs. One by one. Their bodies are brought out of the morgue so the living can pray for the dead, including nine month old Jamal and his father, Uday Amar. Mohammed is performing the same rituals for his wife and twin babies, but prayers offer little comfort for a man who has lost everything for a new father with no children to raise. Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Haifa, Israel. Israel-Hamas cease fire talks are set to resume Thursday in Doha and a lot is riding on them. There has been some speculation that Iran might hold off on plans to attack Israel if a Gaza cease fire is reached soon. But some have cast serious doubt on that. Iran has vowed to retaliate for the assassination of Hamas's political leader in Tehran, an attack that it blames on Israel. Meanwhile, sources tell CNN Hamas is taking a position of intentional ambiguity and ambiguity about appearing at the Doha talks. Representatives from Israel, Qatar, Egypt and the U.S. are all taking part. Nic Robertson joining us now from Tel Aviv with the details. Hi there, Nic. So Hamas being very non-committal about the talks that are set for Thursday. What are you watching for? And if they don't show, are the talks off? No. There's a part of the talks that's going to happen there. Proximity talks. So the U.S. and Israel and the intermediaries, Qatar and Egypt can meet and are expected to meet in Doha tomorrow. we do sort of see this strategic all this ambiguity, by Hamas as, as a potential way to try to put pressure on the Israeli government because they're being very specific about why they have this ambiguity. They are saying these are not negotiations from that point of view, that the meeting in Doha should be about implementing, the framework that President Biden put forward, in, over the past couple of months that they say that the Israeli government, Prime Minister Netanyahu, who has added on additional things like control and veto over prisoner exchange, prisoner release, says about the control of the Philadelphia Corridor, the control of the Rafah border crossing, all of which are huge issues for Hamas were not part of that original framework. So from their perspective. you know, and speaking to other sources who are informed about the talks and about Hamas's position, it seems clear through this ambiguity as well, very clear that if the talks were to go in Doha between the U.S. and and Israel and Qatar and the Egyptians, as Hamas wants, then they would have somebody available to have a follow on discussion with, but I don't think expectations are at that point. I think the expectations really at the moment, questioning what is going to be different about these talks than any other, how much or has there been any substantial change on the negotiating position of either side, either Hamas or Israel? And that's where things stand. And of course, that's what Iran is waiting to see. And the expectation is, regardless of the outcome of these talks, Iran will strike. It's just a question of how big that strike would be. And, Nick, if you want to talk to us about, you know, what you're hearing there in Israel, because obviously, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been facing a lot of pressure. And it seems there seems to be a difference between what the public wants versus the political will and what the government, is aiming for. Yeah. The latest polling, on some of the channels here in Israel indicates about two thirds of the population would go for a hostage deal. as it's been outlined already, which which is a significant number. But that's not the position of prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that we know. And it's certainly not the position that the hard right members of his coalition government, are willing to tolerate. They threatened to get out of the talks if he went for that kind of deal. I think there's been a lot of expectation in the region, particularly, you know, in trying to get these talks up and running tomorrow, that there would be a lot of U.S. pressure on Prime Minister Netanyahu to change his position, not to have these add ons that, Hamas talks about, although his office says they don't they haven't put any add ons to President Biden's framework. and when we had the announcement yesterday, that, that the United States was going to clear $20 billion worth of military, of military equipment to Israel, not this is part of a long process, and it's only part of that process, and it's only provisional, the timing of it, because it's been a long process that seemed to indicate that the United States potentially potentially trying to trying to give Prime Minister Netanyahu something in return for what they may hope comes out of these talks. But I would say no one is holding their breath that that would be the outcome from this. Yeah, they understand the complexities and reality of, all that is taken into account. Nic Robertson, appreciate your reporting there from Tel Aviv. Thank you.
</doc>