<video_id>3-g3tHgUfW0</video_id>
<video_title>Threats of all-out war grow between Israel and Hezbollah</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Threats of all-out war grow between Israel and Hezbollah.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240624</publish_date>

<doc>
the European Union's top diplomat warns the risk of Israel's war spilling over into Lebanon is growing. Joseph Burrell says he's much more worried than before, pointing to increased bombings on both sides of the border. Ben Wedeman is in Lebanon, where life goes on as the shadow of war looms large. It's a day of joy and celebration here in South Lebanon. Israeli forces are just about five miles away from here. But nonetheless, here in the town of Hezbollah, there's a wedding going on. It didn't seem right to spoil this special day for newlyweds Tamer and Faten, with questions about the dark clouds hovering over Lebanon. But one guest told us off camera, we're celebrating here while war is around the corner. Hezbollah has been spared the worst of the barrages and counter barrages between Israel and Hezbollah. Here they stop anyone from firing towards Israel. Parliament member Elias Gerardi was elected to represent Christians in this area. Majority of the southern people, majority of the Lebanese people from all sects or religions or parties, they are in one way or another. They are committed with the Palestinian. Everyone we spoke with had a completely contrary opinion. Few people wanted to speak on camera about the looming danger of war for fear of repercussions. Off camera, we got an earful. There is zero appetite for escalation. Little support for Hezbollah. 85 year old Abu Nabeel has seen it all. War and civil war. Invasions and occupation of weapons of war is ruination, he says. In war, everyone loses. Even the winner, Abu Nabeel, knows of what he speaks. Since October, Israel and Hezbollah and its allies have been engaged in low intensity warfare, largely limited to the border. If full scale war breaks out, that war will spread well beyond the frontier on both sides. Last week, Israeli generals approved a plan to attack Lebanon right now, while Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah recently warned if it comes to war, the group will fight Israel on land, sea and air and also incite Israel itself. All this webinar covered webinars. The Iranian backed groups sophisticated attacks have surprised Israeli officials, including precision strikes on surveillance posts on the border, shooting down high flying Israeli drones and knocking out anti-missile and anti-drone defenses, and posting online more than nine minutes of what it claimed was drone footage of sensitive military and civilian infrastructure in and around the city of Haifa. The bell summons the faithful to mass in the predominantly Christian town of Marjayoun. More than 90,000 people have already left the South for safer ground in Hebron. Among, Amal says she's determined to stay, but adds if things escalate to war and it reaches here like it did before with some shelling, of course, like others will have to leave this. But for now they can only pray for peace and hope those prayers are heard. Our Ben Wedeman joins us now from Beirut. Ben, I want you to pack this for us because the rhetoric has definitely changed. There's a sense and major concern about potential escalation. Israel last week approving operational plans for potential offensive in Lebanon. Netanyahu is saying they might shift focus to Lebanon. How are people responding on the ground, and what are they reading into this new rhetoric about the prospect of a bigger conflict? Well, people have heard here in Lebanon for months now, sort of saber rattling, coming from Israel. But I think what has people really worried with was, what we've heard reported on CNN that the Biden administration has expressed its full support for Israel in the event of a full scale hostilities between Hezbollah and Israel, which is rather reminiscent of the full bodied support the Americans voiced at the beginning of the disastrous war in Gaza. So really, that has people worried. And we're already seeing signs of of things, for instance, cancellations in hotels in Lebanon in the summer, Lebanon is highly dependent on, members of the Lebanese diaspora and tourists to come here to bring badly needed hard cash. There have been many cancellations, and at hotels and elsewhere. we also know that Kuwait, Sweden and North Macedonia, have warned their citizens not to travel to Lebanon under the current circumstances. And those who are here to leave immediately. this is reminiscent, of course, of the kind of things we were seeing back in October last year. And finally, the London Telegraph has put out a report saying that the Beirut International Airport is being used as a storage depot for weapons by Hezbollah. Now, Lebanese officials have come out and flatly denied that, the Minister of Information, the Minister of Transport and the foreign minister actually led a tour of journalists and foreign diplomats to show them there's nothing there. But people are worried that this is a sign, that, for instance, there's a target that the Israelis might hit the airport, which is essential for this small country, which only has one international airport and 90. Yeah. Ben Wedeman, thank you so much for that analysis. Good to see you.
</doc>