<video_id>yetveeYbHXc</video_id>
<video_title>Top UN court orders Israel to prevent genocide in Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Top UN court orders Israel to prevent genocide in Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240126</publish_date>

<doc>
The International Court of Justice has ordered Israel to take all measures to prevent the commission of genocidal acts in Gaza and to punish any public incitement of genocide. That provisional ruling announced at The Hague. A short time ago, with the court concluding that it has jurisdiction over the case brought by South Africa alleging Israel's actions in Gaza could amount to genocide, the court stopped short of calling for an immediate cease fire in Israel's war with Hamas. It did order, however, Israel to submit a report within one month on what it is doing to respond to the court's order Israel must, in accordance with its obligations under the Genocide Convention in relation to Palestinians in Gaza, take all measures within its power to prevent the Commission of all Acts within the scope of Article two of the convention, in particular, a killing group's members of the group B causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group Well, these provisional measures come as the Hamas run health ministry in Gaza reports the death toll in Gaza since the start of the war has now passed 26,000 with 64,000 people injured. It says at least 183 were killed over the past day. There is a lot to unpack here. We've got Melissa Bell connecting us from The Hague. Jeremy Diamond is in Tel Aviv as well as David McKenzie in Johannesburg. All standing by for analysis. Melissa, let's start off with you. We've just heard from the ICJ that of course, ruling that just came through Immediate measures it says that Israel must adhere to. Take a seat. What you've heard and maybe you can hear behind me lately, some of the pro-Palestinian protesters listening on a big screen who've been cheering on is every one of those counts. And the ruling came from the head of the International Court of Justice here in The Hague. It was just short of a cease fire, of course, that the ruling went. And, yes, significantly further towards it than any of us had imagined when these proceedings began. We listened on the 10th and 11th of January to South Africa and then Israel lay out their case. And what we just heard today was the head of the ICJ essentially go extremely far in the direction of South Africa, conceding that it was because of all the genocidal acts were being committed, urging Israel to take image urgent measures to ensure that there are no further killings of Palestinians in Gaza. A group, by the way, that the court recognizes as a protected people nor the further causing of any mental or bodily harm to them. Now that is short of a cease fire, but very close to it. And I think this is a ruling that Israel is now going to have to respond to. It had been said the fact that it were chosen to represent themselves as robustly as they did, an indication of how seriously they took this court and its rulings and no doubt what the wider world will consider as it takes in these proceedings. So an order that I think will now see a great deal of pressure on Israel, certainly to allow more access to Gaza and probably to alter the way in which it is perhaps going about its military operation or certainly the transparency with which is going about in the wake of this, the UN's highest court, such that it will be a very difficult ruling for Israel to ignore Melissa Bell there for us at The Hague. And we can see those protesters as well. We've also got Jeremy Diamond standing by in Tel Aviv. And in fact, we've just heard from Netanyahu, from Benjamin Netanyahu, hailing the ICJ ruling as what he says a rejection of discrimination against Israel Yeah, the Israeli prime minister in his comments making clear that Israel's commitment to international law, in his words, is unwavering and also making clear that Israel is not going to stop its war in Gaza. Talking about the fact that Israel will continue to defend itself against Hamas, which he calls a genocidal terror organization. But what he is also distinguishing in this video message is that the war in Gaza is against Hamas and not against Palestinian civilians. And he is also making note of the fact that Israel will, quote, continue to facilitate humanitarian assistance to Palestinian civilians and continue its efforts to minimize harm as it continues its military operations in Gaza. But we're getting some far stronger reaction, perhaps from Israel's defense minister, who is making clear that those who seek justice, he says, will not find it in the leather chairs of the court chambers in The Hague, slamming the Hague's decision not to reject South Africa's petition outright to allow this case to proceed. I think now one of the real questions is to what extent is Israel going to actually abide by the terms of this provisional reading ruling and to what extent will they actually compiled this report that the court has demanded of Israel within the next month? I think it's clear that Israel has decided to kind of play along with this court up until now, has chosen to defend itself quite arduously in these proceedings. But now as it relates to specific actions on the ground, to what extent will Israel actually move forward with those to to another extent, it's important to note that this ruling obviously didn't go as far as South Africa wanted, as far as Israel feared it would in terms of calling for an outright cease fire in this war. That has not happened here. And because of that, there's certainly a significant sigh of relief among senior Israeli officials as they look at this ruling, even though this court very much laid out the disastrous humanitarian conditions in Gaza, gave some credence to the claims of South Africa, while it made clear that it wasn't ruling on the merits of the case. It certainly can continue to soil Israel's international reputation, but it doesn't go as far as calling for an outright cessation of hostilities which could have potentially put Israel in the position of defying a binding ruling by this court. All right. We've got David McKenzie in Johannesburg as well. And David, we also heard from the minister of international relations naledi, Pandor, outside the court today and to Jeremy's points. Yes, the you know, the wording in terms of the ceasing of fire off of the the military action right now wasn't in this ruling by the ICJ. But what naledi pandor, interestingly, said that if Israel is going to abide by what was put out in court today, that a cessation would have to occur Well, I think what's important here to note is that this is a matter that isn't over. As Jeremy mentioned, Israel was required to give a report in about a month about how it is going towards meeting those requests, those binding requests of the court to avoid what the court says may at some point amount to genocide as it does its investigation into the horrible circumstances in Gaza. So from the South African perspective, they will be hoping for the pressure to be piled on to try and improve the conditions of the people in Gaza. It was very telling that when someone asked Naledi Pandor, the Minister of International Relations and cooperation on the steps of the court, you know, what does this say about South Africa and Israel? She said, well, this is about the Palestinian people. And as you know, Elena, the ruling party here has had a long affinity to the Palestinian cause all the way back to and before Nelson Mandela. This is a consistent policy stance by the South African government. And they've put the money where their mouth is, as it were. She said they couldn't stand idly by while these alleged atrocities happened. And now they are going to continue this case in the months and potentially years ahead. I think an important thing to note as well. South Africa says that it wants to pursue this case also to try and make a statement about bodies like the U.N. Security Council not being effective in trying to push global cooperation. They said this venue may be a way to do it. Take a listen. The member states of the United Nations must oversee the process and ensure that we create a basis for a global community in which a resort to arms is no longer easily a resort to abuse. It's no longer easy and that more effort is now directed toward negotiation and towards seeking peaceful means of ending conflict. She did allude to powerful friends of Israel, and you can read the US and that to perhaps persuade Israel behind the scenes to change how they are configured pursuing this war against Hamas in the coming weeks to avoid possible censure in the coming months from this court. Of course, Israel has repeatedly denied that it is doing anything in the theater of war. In fact, they've said that they have tried to protect civilians and provide humanitarian aid. It will be really important to see whether the behavior of Israel or the sense of how they are working towards these judgments or at least rulings by the court play out in the coming days.
</doc>