<video_id>_BjBr7Kf8rA</video_id>
<video_title>US intel: Hezbollah could be getting Russian missile system</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\US intel Hezbollah could be getting Russian missile system.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231103</publish_date>

<doc>
Just moments ago, a flairs seen across the sky and Gaza just as we were coming to air. We are right now witnessing in the midst of this. Wherever you're watching in Gaza the biggest air assault, anyone who is there on that 25 m since this war began on October  And it comes as our CNN team in  Israel is also now witnessing rocket fire from Iranian backed forces in Lebanon into Israel. This is a pivotal moment, a crucial moment. The leader of Hezbollah, in fact, is about to speak for the first time since the war And what he says could change the trajectory of the war. Jim Sciutto is OUTFRONT on the g And Jim, what have you been seeing there  Well, this whole past week and l we've seen an exchange of fire along this northern border, most artillery fire, mortar fire. Today, though, we saw the sky filled rockets coming from Lebanon into into northern Israel. And then we also saw Israeli missile defense high in the sky taking out some of those rockets Did not appear. They got all of  Israeli fighter jets higher up i responding as well. Helicopters moving in both directions, just a level of activity in the  that shows the level of alarm to on the border as the attacks stepped up, comin from Hezbollah in southern Lebanon and fears of the opening of a ne A rocket fired from southern Lebanon sets the street on fire in Kirya today in northern Israel, suffered under one of the biggest barrages of r since the start of the war. Our team witnessed the Iron Dome missile defense system intercept two incoming rockets though at least one other caused substantial damage. In response, the Israeli militar fired back at what it says is the culprit, Hezbollah, in southern Lebanon. Hezbollah sits on a massive stockpile of rockets and missile far bigger than that of Hamas, numbering more than 100,000 Many have the range and accuracy to strike deep into Israeli terr including all the way to Tel Avi And this is one sign of how seriously Israel is takin the Hezbollah threat Today, we watched Israeli special forces and tank units conduct a live fire exercise training to defend Israel in case of invasion from the nor These are combined arms exercise Israeli Special Forces, IDF Special Forces here. There's also two tanks involved  It is live fire. It's a measure of the seriousnes with which they're keeping their trained up, ready to go if necessary in the  But also, given that we're within sight of Syria here and just a few miles from the Lebanon border, this is also a show of force to Iran's proxies. In the region, a show of force perhaps to this  Hassan Nasrallah, leader of Hezb to his admirers in the Muslim wo He is a leader of the resistance credited with forcing Israeli forces out of southern Lebanon i after an 18 year occupation. To Israel. He is an existential threat on its northern border. Tomorrow he will address his fol and the world for the first time since the October 7th Hamas atta The question for many. Will he order his forces to join the war against Israel more aggressively They have the capacity. To do enormous. Damage, but I'm not certain that they really want to be on the receiving end of what Israel is going to send their wa The threat of escalation extends beyond Hezbollah. Yemen based Houthi rebels, also backed by Iran, are firing long range missiles at Israel from the south east. Another potential front in a war that would see Israel surrounded As the world awaits the words of Hezbollah's leader, Nas Hezbollah fighters issued their own public earlier this week saying that their hands, their fingers are on the trigger Israeli officials have have their own strong words communicating to Hezbollah via interlocutors in Europe that if Hezbollah gets into this war in numbers, that Israel will strike back dee into Lebanon. Strong words now. And now all eyes tomorrow on the words of the Hez leader Erin. Very sobering. Jim, thank you very much. And more breaking news on this, because CNN is now learning that Syria has agreed to provide Hezbollah with a RUSSIAN-MADE missile defense system. And Oren Liebermann is OUTFRONT at the Pentagon. Breaking this news and Oren, you are just getting these breaking details from your repor This obviously would be a very significant and very serious development. What more are you learning. Erin, according to two sources familiar with the intell Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has agreed to provide a Russian made aerial defense system to He And it is the Russian mercenary group, Wagner, that will transfer that as, say, 22 or panzer missile defens from Syria to Lebanon, where it could be set up to be u Now, what's unclear from the intelligence, according to these sources, is whether the system has already been transferred. It is a medium range air defense and would add to Hezbollah's cap if and when it arrives in Lebano Now, the Israelis have dealt with this system in the past in  Take a look at this video. This is from May 2018. This is video from the IDF of them striking say 22 in Syria that was operated by Iran or being used by Iranian proxies So they have shown the capabilit to handle these systems and to strike them from the air. But of course, now the situation is entirely differ with Israel embroiled with a war and the possibility that Hezbollah could enter this in a much more significant fashi So even if Israel has dealt with, say, 22 before, certainly not under these circum And that's what everyone here is watching very closely. According to other sources on th So far, the U.S. believes that Iran and its proxi don't want to get involved in a  But, of course, as Jim pointed out, the speech from Hezbollah leader Hassan Nas everyone is watching that speech to see where this goes and what  It's also worth pointing out the denominator here. backed by Iran, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad backed by Iran. And they have worked with Russia which has also backed Assad and provided that Wagner support the ties here linking all of these different groups Er Absolutely. Thank you very much, Oren Lieber
</doc>