<video_id>9LVVrfvv9BM</video_id>
<video_title>Veteran reporter shows what it's like inside Hamas tunnels under Gaza</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Veteran reporter shows what it's like inside Hamas tunnels under Gaza.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231017</publish_date>

<doc>
The U.S. says it still knows nothing about the condition of the Americans believed to be taken hostage by Hamas. And while their whereabouts remain unknown, some do believe that they could be held in Gaza's tunnels. My next guest has actually walked through those tunnels. I want to bring in veteran foreign affairs correspondent Reena nine and Reena. These tunnels are kind of a bit of a source of some mystery, but they are believed to be just literally under the feet of the Palestinian people, as you can kind of see here, under buildings, under apartment. We also have some somewhat rare video. This is from 2017. Can you walk us through what we are looking at here, what you've been to to You know, I have to tell you, these tunnels are far more elaborate than the ones I went down. The ones I went down were built by teenage boys that essentially were made of dirt and are probably one time usage but you could see the potential of hostages being in these tunnels fortified here with concrete. What's also so troubling is as incredible as Israeli anti detection systems are for these tunnels, which they do have, it's really hard. Hamas has gotten smarter over the years about their ability to get in and destroy these tunnels. So you see how fortified it is, the concrete, the fact that they can go down into here and go undetected. I'm going to show a few more pictures here. And you see the dirt around here, the ones I went through were essentially I'm 54. I was able to go down the whole entire route of these tunnels and then it slowly started to cave down. These are far better engineered and constructed because the tunnels are likely. These hostages are, I bet, are potentially the ones that have are not intended for one time use their intended for this type of warfare. Meanwhile, the other story here is about the civilians. They are now being asked to evacuate. We're looking here at this evacuation not there's really only one place for them to get out. And it would be right here. This is the Rafah crossing that leads straight to Egypt. I'm going to show another kind of image here. This is what it looks like up close. What are the challenges here for civilians trying to get out? Well, one, it's incredibly unpredictable and incredibly dangerous. We know that there have been Israeli airstrikes and so you constantly don't know what could happen in this area. State Department has also said that if and when the Rafah crossing eventually opens, what could happen is it won't be open for a long, extended period of time. It'll open quickly and could potentially close. You've got all these people here in the Gaza Strip looking to get out. That's the one exit point right now is this Rafah, which enters into Egypt's Sinai Peninsula there. So you've got the unpredictability it's dangerous. And also, Abbi, the fact that we've heard that we don't know how long it could be. And of course, this is a very significant distance here. It's a small it's a small space. But it's a significant distance if you don't have a lot of means. If you don't have a lot of means, and also you don't know how long you're camping out there for. So the fact that these people could be down there trying to get humanitarian aid, the Egyptians also don't want over a million people absorbed into Egypt. So that's a big concern. While they said they'll allow multinational people come into Egypt, leave via Cairo, these Palestinians coming through don't have that option. All right. Rana, and thank you so much.
</doc>