<video_id>l-RBT5KE_Z4</video_id>
<video_title>Video shows helicopter rescue of Israeli hostages</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Video shows helicopter rescue of Israeli hostages.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240608</publish_date>

<doc>
your. &gt;&gt; On CNN newsroom. Hi, everyone. I am Jessica Dean in New York and we begin with breaking news out of the middle East as Israel welcomes home four hostages rescued this morning from gaza during a special military operation all for kidnapped by hamas from the nova music festival during the a6 October 7 attacks, eight months so go and they include 22-year-old almog meir, John, 25-year-old Noa argamani, 20. Andre kozlov, 41-year-old, shlomi Ziv andrii in shlomi were working as security guards at the music festival and you may remember Noa argamani from this horrific video from the October 7 attacks we also heard screaming as hamas fighters drove away with her on a motorbike we know her boyfriend was also kidnapped and it's still being held captive. Israel says this morning's rescue mission took place it to separate locations in central gaza and your refugee camp Palestinians, they're described the raid as hell on Earth is heavy shelling and artillery fire bombarded that area. &gt;&gt; Officials in gaza say at least 210 people have been killed more than 400 injured, including women in children. &gt;&gt; But CNN cannot independently verify those numbers. We are covering these breaking developments from all angles. Been wheat a man has more on the casualties inside gaza, but first we start with Paula hancocks and tel aviv, who has more details on the surprise rescue mission that brought these four hostages home. Apala, how are these hostages doing well, Jessica, what we've been told from the doctor at the medical center, they were all taken two once they were rescued, is that they are all stable. &gt;&gt; They are in good medical condition than just outside that hospital. We have seen all day friends and family coming to welcome home. There loved ones that have been in captivity for the past eight months. Now, many of them have thanked the military for the mission they have thank those that a part of this rescue operation, but they have also said that there are 120 more hostages that needs to be rescued. Now, we did hear from the mother of one of the hostages and almog, meir, Jan and let's listen to what she said thank you. &gt;&gt; So bringing my son to me to ask I'm so excited hugging today. &gt;&gt; I couldn't stop hugging him. I couldn't stop and tomorrow is my birthday. I got my presence now, she also said that they want a ceasefire deal to make sure the rest of the hostages can be released. &gt;&gt; It's something we've heard here tonight in tel aviv where the week plea protest that has been held, we heard from the one of the women speaking her cousinone of those who has died in captivity. The body still being held by hamas, saying, not everything will have a holiday he would ending. So there's a real push at the same time as celebrating the rescue of these four hostages. A push for a ceasefire and hostage deal. Jessica and Paul, what more are you learning about the rescue? Mission itself? This was high-stake stuff. How did it come together what we're hearing from the idf Sayyed is that the military, the acuity agency, the police, had a joint operation. &gt;&gt; They had been planning this for weeks. They say it was based on intelligence and it was just on Thursday night the Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave the green light to go ahead with this mission. They said they effectively built to apartment blocks. They knew that these civilians excuse me, hostages were being held in civilian multi-story buildings and they built block so that they could train in how to try and extract them from that area. Now they have pointed out it wasn't a civilian area and that many of the other hostages would not be held in a similar situation they don't believe that this could be necessarily replicated after this Jessica, I Apollo handcuffs for us. &gt;&gt; Live in tel aviv. Thank you very much. Let's turn now to the impact in gaza. Were Palestinians are describing that special operation as hell on Earth. And I do want to warn you some of the video we're about to show you is graphing locals, telling CNN this about the aftermath of the attack, quote, there are children torn apart and scattered in the streets. We turn now to been Wiedemann for more on the impact inside gaza and Ben hamas officials say they are more than 200 people dead, hundreds more injured. We were just looking at some of that video. What more do we know this is without a doubt, one of the bloodiest is rarely assaults in this war. &gt;&gt; So far no doctors at the aqsa martyrs hospital indebted Bella say that the death toll at the moment stands at least at 400 Jordan ten, with more than 400 injured, no CNN has a camera man who got into that hospital and the scenes are utter pen ammonium. Women, children, wounded, dead all over this hospital. The morgue is full. The debtor on the ground side. There are many relatives there trying to get treatment for their wounded loved ones. Others are weeping and brain over the dead. Now, this assault took place mid-morning just before noon, actually. And at a time when many people are out and about, there's the market in the nuseirat camp where this happened. Lots of people were in the street. And what we've seen video coming out of that place is that he Israelis used a lot of heavy firepower in that area where there were many civilians walking around so certain this is a success for the Israelis, but for the Palestinians, it comes at a very high price and it's worth mentioning that the Israelis and military operations going back to October have managed at this point to free seven hostages. However, 105 hostile judges were released during a ceasefire back in late November, in which at one Israeli hostages were freed as well as 20 for foreign nationals. It's clear that after eight months of war in a death toll of over 36,000 in gaza. That the best way to get people out, the hostages free is not through dramatic military action, but it's through ceasefire Jessica and then secretary St. Anthony blinken is traveling to the Middle East to push for a ceasefire deal between Israel and hamas what is the word at this point on how this potential, how this rescue mission may potentially impact those discussions well, we've seen a statement from spokesman for hamas indicating that this might make things more difficult, but they're already, it seems that even though president Biden came out onto 30 of may, come meet with a three-point proposal to try to end this one for both sides have been ambiguous. &gt;&gt; The Israelis have indicated sort of a willingness to go along with it. But prime minister Netanyahu has made it clear that his the ultimate goal is the destruction of hamas. Hamas wants Israel to agree to a complete and permanent ceasefire, so they still seem to be well, a apart. The gap is wide between the two sides. Now, we know that William burns, the head of the CIA was in Qatar, and Brett Mcgurk, the mideast coordinator for the white house, was in Cairo. So the efforts are being made, but they don't seem to be
</doc>