<video_id>Q0NQFeLzsd8</video_id>
<video_title>Volunteer Israeli medic recounts horror of Hamas attack</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Volunteer Israeli medic recounts horror of Hamas attack.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231022</publish_date>

<doc>
For two weeks now, Israel and Gaza have been at war. Israel and Hamas have been at war. And the region is confronting all the horrors of what that actually means. I want to bring in now Amy Galliano, a volunteer medic with United Hatzalah. Now, Naomi, on the afternoon of the Hamas attack, and I just want everyone to know when they're looking at you now you're at work, you're out saving your lives. That's what you do. Yeah, I know you are. So I really appreciate you just taking a few minutes to talk to us because I know that you want the world to know and to be very aware of what happened. And you think it's important that day. On the afternoon of the Hamas attack, you were you were on call looking for anyone who survived. You were you were getting those calls. You were going to the kibbutzim along that border. How do you even cope with what you saw before we even talk about what you saw? How do you cope with it now? Naomi? So right now, thanks to United SLA and other organizations in Israel, I have a full psychological treatment and the other. Day special treatment is called EMDR. It's a system that works on the brain that helps you cope with traumatic events before you develop post-traumatic symptoms. So I have that. Sort. Of like. You're getting. Yes. Now, me, I know that you witnessed horrific things with your own eyes as you were trying to save lives. I know that, again, you have chosen to talk about this because you don't want the world to be able to turn away and forget what happened, what you saw with your own eyes. What do you want people to know about what you saw? The first thing that I want them to know that probably. Hamas is. ISIS, the act and the horrific things that we suffer are beyond not worse than anything compared to her or any movie or any horror movie that you could ever, ever imagine being or anywhere. Begin with the babies that we saw dead. Bleeding, beheaded to the women that we saw in the same situation, the same. Poses, the blood to the elderly. Yeah. Let me your take your pick. Everything Naomi, I have, I think along with many others, I felt frustration that beheading became a part of this, that that the horrific things that everyone knows occurred, that why that would be something that needed to be proven when so many horrific other things also happened. But I just want to be clear that you did see those acts. You did see people who had been beheaded. Fortunately, I have seen that. I've seen people that. Their limbs have been taken. Out. I've seen mothers dead on top of their babies. That were also dead. burned bodies of young. Girls, young men, people of. All ages. Babies burn, baby. Burn them. They're like, I can't even start to describe the smell. But at the beginning, you don't even realize what you're smelling. It smells like barbecue, you know? Doesn't make any sense. And when you take a look a little bit closer to both sides, you realize that. It is. Bird meat. And its. People. Yeah, it's people. And it's something that I don't think I will ever be able to raise from my head or from my mind. Or my dream. Naomi, Was there anyone that was in a position that you were able to help them when you got there? Yes, it was. It was around. It took us so, so much time till we found people that were actually alive. And when we did, we were able to help. Yeah, thank God. But compared to the dead people and. The amount. Of dead, it wasn't. It wasn't a lot. But yes, we were able were able to save a few families from Bury that we loaded the ambulance with four or five injured at the same time because there was no time we were under fire and we have to load the ambulance with as much. Injured as we can. And they were severely, severely injured in their lungs because they. They breathed smoke for at least three or 4 hours because the terrorists, Hamas, burned their houses. Once they realized they cannot go into the safe room. So they just burned the whole place down. And the family. That stayed inside, some of them. Were alive and we were able to help them and and save them and some of them not. My God, the fact that some of them were alive and you were able were able to save them. I mean, what a miracle. What a miracle that is. I mean, Naomi, who obviously this is how you reacted in a moment that no one can comprehend being in, you reacted by going in. You talk about being under fire as you're trying to save people. Did you realize that you could have died? Did you realize that this was all still happening while you were there or did you even process it. At that time? You don't stop to process it. You just think I'm here. I'll do my best to stay alive because I have to save more life. I have to get back to my family. So even you under fire, you try the best as you can to stay alive. If it's lying on the floor, if it's try to hide behind cars, if it's staying really, really quiet. Even though with you an ambulance, even though you're driving through the night, but you don't turn the light on, you drive in complete, complete darkness because, you know, if you stay alive, then you could save more lives. And that's what you do. Hour after hour. Well, that's what you do. I think so many of us I listen to you and it's it's truly unbelievable. It's an inspiration that it's hard to even comprehend. And you're still doing it, Naomi. You're still you're still going out. You're still able to work now. Well, I took few days off this past week. Now I'm back here. I'm in Ashkelon right now. I have my crew with me and my ambulance on the other side over here. I have the ambulance behind me right now. I can be inside the ambulance. I can't be inside the ambulance. We have to be outside. We have safe places here. Because if there's any alarm on, we have to go into the safe place. And only when it stops, we could go out and start safe with the rescue people and and hoping that no one got hurt. That's our best hope. Well, Naomi, I want to thank you very much. Before you go, I just want to ask you a very simple question, which is now that you've taken the time to share these horrors and to relive them because you want people to hear that, is there anything else you want to tell anyone watching about what's happening in Israel, about how you feel? Is there anything else you just want the world to hear? Thank you so much for doing this. I just want the world to know that these things should never happen again. You should know that Hamas is ISIS. The acts. That we saw are against any humanity that possibly. Be existing in this world. And go home to. Your families and hug your kids and love them and be with them. Because from what I saw, maybe. You could never know if. It's the last day or the. Last moment and you're just tell your family that you love them every day. And if you're in a situation, try to do your best to help others, because sometimes even the smallest help could change the world for someone else. Naomi, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you so much for taking the time. Nima Galliano, as you can see in Ashkelon, Israel, out empty out right now, going to save lives even after what she has endured and taken the time and agony to share it with all of us.
</doc>