<video_id>ni1vHdQtWbs</video_id>
<video_title>Watch as Iron Dome intercepts Hamas' rockets over CNN correspondent's head</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Watch as Iron Dome intercepts Hamas' rockets over CNN correspondent's head.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231010</publish_date>

<doc>
I can't think of a scenario where I've been sort of looking at rockets that are outgoing and a colleague. Dear colleague, you are being underneath it. And if it's a bad, eerie feeling and I just when I see the rockets coming out of that, I want to be picking up the phone and said, guys, they're coming. They're coming. But I know the defense system here is so strong that you get as I'm seeing them come up, you're getting the sirens immediately. I mean, you're getting those intercepts right over your head. We're actually from where we are. We can actually see the rockets Iron Dome rockets themselves taking off and making those intercepts. And we've been looking. I know you're trying to figure out if you can get to underneath the cloud of smoke, but John's pointing at that cloud of smoke now. We've been watching it get bigger. It was small, dark cloud of smoke. Now it's like big and billowing and the smoke is gone kind of gray. But something's on fire there because it hasn't gone out. It's it's it's it's putting out more smoke. But, yeah, when I see those rockets going out there and the intercepts above your head, I'm just thinking about you and your team, Brant and Clayton. And I'm hearing I'm and I'm hearing small arms fire behind me there. That's that's the Israeli Defense Force, I believe, will be firing towards Gaza. I don't know if I've seen anything. Small arms fire, guns, heavy machine guns, small machine guns, okay. Thank you. Absolutely. Nic. No, we can hear that small arms fire. We heard a right over your shoulder. Have you been hearing have you been hearing that since the rockets since this barrage kind of started up? Right. Basically, right at 10 a.m. eastern Yeah. No, not really. I mean, we don't get much small arms fire, but, you know, we had it in this town siren two days ago. We had it and we knew that the IDF was going after some Hamas militants in the town because that is coming from towards Gaza. Does that mean some Hamas militants have been spotted maybe at the border fence trying to get through the border fence? If they have, they popped out a tunnel? We're seeing intercepts. Clarissa, I believe that there is missiles coming your way because I'm seeing intercepts above your head. So take take cover here that they're going up. They're intercepting right there. Okay. Yeah, you can see right here. There you see a right above us. That's the Iron Dome intercepting, just sort of crashing your balcony. But you can see the plane Clayton. Just keep a little bit inside. Yeah. So this is just the sirens went off a matter of seconds ago. And now we're hearing as those rockets, it looks like most of them were intercepted by the Iron Dome up there. You can see the plumes of smoke from where they were literally stopped in their tracks. Seems that maybe it's a little bit quieter right now. Not clear out. There's another one. Hold on. You can hear a jet overhead now as well. It's not uncommon in these situations. You'll hear the intercepts, you'll hear the Iron Dome at work. And then pretty quickly after that, you'll hear jets and then the distant thought of a strike and Gaza still hearing those rockets being intercepted and just gives you a feel for the the volume of rockets that are being used. I think many people initially had been surprised by how many, how many rockets, how extensive the stockpiling up. And here another sorry, how extensive the stockpiling and how effective it's been in terms of the sheer amount of rockets and some of them longer range rockets and missiles as well. So now appears to be a little bit quieter. We can still see those plumes of smoke from where the Iron Dome was activated. We can still see a plume of darker smoke lower on the horizon from where one of those rockets appears to have made impact earlier on. But clearly, Hamas trying to send a very sobering message to the people of Ashkelon today. They warned people, they told them leave by 5 p.m.. And it has been pretty unrelenting in the I forget how long we've been out here now, but what are we talking? 35 minutes of pretty sustained, I would say barrages of rockets coming in to this cease port city. Really remarkable for us as John Berman here, we're seeing in real time the Iron Dome interceptor those rockets over your head. And if we can just show people this map very quickly so we can remind people where Clarissa is. She is in Ashkelon right here. Our Nic Robertson and this is really also remarkable. Nic Robertson was here in Central looking over Gaza as the rockets were being shot out into Ashkelon. Where Clarissa is. Clarissa, we hear heard explosions and blast there. Was that from the sky? Can you distinguish between intercepts or whether there was any impact on the ground from that last barrage? Yeah, you can usually you can usually distinguish is a slightly different sound when they're intercepted in the sky as opposed to when they make a direct hit I will say the first barrage right at 5:00 was the most sustained, the most intensive and the most amount of direct hits. From what we heard, we don't know where those hits may have happened, with the exception of that one location where it appears that one of those rockets hit again, we don't know exactly what was there, but we've been going out every day now and seeing the the impact and effect that some of these rockets have. They destroy cars. They destroy homes. They just leave craters in the streets. And, of course, they have a very palpable effect on the psyche of ordinary people. I think I hear a drone now. Again, drones are very common at the moment for obvious reasons. We heard some jets before as well. We had been hearing pretty much constant jet activity yesterday, but more so even the day before. And it is this utterly disco bar violating sense for people who live here between on the one hand, sirens going off and people are frantically running to try to get to shelters and crouching. And then you hear explosions in the sky and then 5 minutes later, everything feels quiet again. You can hear the sea. It's it's hard to imagine how people can live like this day in and day out. It's extremely difficult to kind of find any sense of equilibrium. And we have definitely notice that the tempo in Ashkelon today, this afternoon has has dramatically escalated. John Clarissa, thank you. Stand by for a second. Let's go back to Nic Robertson instead. Nic, you were hearing firing. Describe what you were hearing and what you think it might have been what we were hearing, what sounded like small arms fire, machine gun fire, and that typically the Israeli Defense Forces won't fire their machine guns unless they're close to a target. And then we could hear what sounded like exchange exchanges of fire, sustained, sustained bursts of fire coming from that direction towards the border fence. There are several we're saying it's literally 2700 meters, I think is what is what you said, Sara? The distance between where we're at and the border fence and if Hamas is still trying to make incursions. We were down in that area today. We were probably about 700 meters from the border fence earlier today. And there are a lot of Israeli troops down in that area, combat troops and jeeps and tanks and armored vehicles. They're ready for the potential of more Hamas militants trying to slip inside Israel. So it's possible that that's what we've just heard there. But the fact that the gunfire is subside subsided tells me that whatever that contact, to use the military parlance, was the contact is broken at the moment. They're not engaged in a firefight. So that is over unless we hear it start up again. But what we did hear during when Clarissa was under that bombardment again, just in the past few minutes, we did hear a lot of artillery fire being fired from the Israeli forces into Gaza. That's a very accurate artillery that they used to try to target the firing points to try to get the the the Hamas militants who are firing the rockets. And further south in Gaza, I did hear a series of even bigger explosions and those may have been associated with that fighter jet. And I'm hearing another sound explosion, detonation ripple through the air that may have been associated with the fighter jets that both Clarissa and I heard flying in over Gaza just in the past few minutes.
</doc>