<video_id>LX0UE92QqDw</video_id>
<video_title>Wesley Clark: Israeli’s militarily have to do this</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Wesley Clark Israeli’s militarily have to do this.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231115</publish_date>

<doc>
You should talk about that a lit Just from a military standpoint, in all wars when there are civilians around and there are targets of that, that are believed to be of milit necessity, there are calculation essentially done about how valuable is the target What is the risk of civilian los and how much civilian loss is ac And these are horrible calculations that are but these are calculations that armies make during war a situation like this operating on the ground in a hos has got to be extraordinarily di Sure. And you're exactly right, Anders About the way you cast it. You know what the target is? You know how valuable it is. You try to estimate what the ris are of hurting civilians and then you have to make the ju as to whether the target going after the target, taking out the target, is worth the risk of injuring pe who are innocent and not part of the enemy force. But here you're dealing with the and control node of Hamas. You're dealing with Hamas that has deliberately, cynically located its most valuable assets in a hospital deliberately to try to provoke outrage in the world community and discredit Israel Israelis know this. They've got really great intel o When those soldiers go in in armored vehicles first and then dismounted into the bui and it is a very complex compoun as you saw from the overhead cov that helicopters will have drones overhead. They'll be able to mark and many positions with lasers. They'll be able to deliver preci if there is an opponent there. And then they've got to go insid and if Hamas is there, yes, there could be a shootout in a hospital corridor and they're going to have to get to the bottom of it and they're going to have to sea for the tunnel entrances around  So every at every step, the soldier on the ground, the tank commander and so forth is at risk. He's putting himself out there. He's likely to draw fire. He has the right to self-defense no matter what always. And he's going to respond if he is attacked. But he's got a lot of assets backing him up, a lot of other eyes on the battl So it's everything that can possibly be done to protect civilians and still go after the command and control at the hospital. And the Israelis militarily, they have to do this. One of the things I'm surprised there is not more outrage out internationally about is that Ha two years, say, to preparing this attack or a ye however long it was. We don't know the exact amount o that they've been preparing, but certainly they've been prepa for quite some time. They have not made any effort to build any bomb shelter for any civilian, it seems, in the Gaza Strip. They built tunnels for themselve to store supplies and weapons and to protect themselves. But there are not bomb shelters  the kind of shelters that you se on the sides of the road in Israel by bus stops to protect against  Those don't exist on the streets of of Gaza. Have you in your military experi have you seen many countries or territories with a military that does not prepare or have some sort of saf harbor for its civilians? Well, no, but on the other hand, Hamas deliberately wants these c to be at risk. Well, that's I mean, that's the  Yes, but but I still find it stunning tha that doesn't seem to register wi a lot of people. Well, the thing about it, Anderson, is we call Hamas a terrorist orders I suppose actually, the government of the Gaza Strip they're in charge of everything. And they have had received hundreds of millions of from Qatar and other places and they have not built any bomb shelters for their peop Right. Because they're not interested in protecting their people. They're interested in provoking international outrage against Is They knew that when they launched this attack and they hoped to draw Israel in bog Israel down, cause a lot of casualties, do exactly what they're doing wi opinion, have a lot of voices ou saying cease fire, cease fire, cease fire, and try to stop the Israeli assa and then declare victory. That's that's the goal and show the more civilian casua that the Israelis inflict, even though they don't want to inflict any. The greater Hamas believes its chances of su And, Nic, I mean, it's accurate to say that the health officials in Gaza have denied repeatedly that Al-Shifa Hospital or others are being used by Hamas for any I don't even want to call it military purposes because, I mean, for any of their own pur they have. And and it's something. Health officials in Gaza, Hamas run health officials say i for other hospitals that we've been speaking. CNN has been speaking with officials from the hospital over the last few days. And just going through our latest information on that, it appears the most recent over  couple of days, data that we have from the hospital itself, from our Shifa Hospital they say there are about 7000 ci taking refuge there or there were until recently. It's not clear how many of those might have left and about 1500 s 100 or so doctors, other medical officials and included in that. 1500, of course, several hundred as well as well as sort of suppo in the hospital. So it's still a big complex, a complex, complex and it still appears a significant number of people working there. You would have to assume that these health officials would have knowledge of the whole complex. There's a lot of people there would have knowledge of the nooks and crannies, if yo There wouldn't be places that they wouldn't know about wi within the hospital complex. So they continue to say Hamas isn't there. But I mean, they're considering  about and about Israel. Yeah. I mean, anybody who has operated who has reported from Gaza. No, I mean, you see rockets bein from civilian areas. You see rockets being fired from the building where you're at. You're the building. You know, the time I was the last time I was in Gaz I can see where rockets are bein from in buildings nearby me. People, you know, even the doctors in the hospital no Hamas, as long as Jihad and others are firing rockets over their hospitals. But they don't speak out about i because they don't want to get k I mean, they obviously nobody speaks out against Hamas for fear of their own safety. Maybe they agree with Hamas. Maybe they don't. And a lot of people don't in Gaz don't like Hamas. But but people aren't don't spea But people know do they know where the tunnels locations are or where the the the rockets are being fired from You can see it and this is in a nutshell, people people, pe people are scared. I mean, be when Hamas was voted voted in by the electorate and Gaza to power in 2006, 2007, they went round throwing out of windows of high buildings the political opposition and they might have won an election in 2006 but they've maintain control eve Through fear and intimidation they might have a hardcore base of supporters that hoo hoo hoo ha, you know who genuinely believe i But the vast majority of people would would n to speak out against them. Would fear speaking out against  Like you, Anderson, I've been to Gaza and had those private conversati away from cameras with people who will tell you precisely that we are too afraid to speak  Hamas has done this to me the last time I was there. And I why am I the last time I was there, I watched as the Hamas two guys on motorbikes dragged two human beings along on the ground, their legs tied together with rope or chains to the motor And they were dragging them through the streets as a warning to other people. I don't know what those people have been accused of, but they were Palestinians and they were dead. And they were being dragged. They were accused probably of being collaborators. And they dragged them as a warning to everybody else to stay silent and to not collab we're over time. Nic Robertson, thank you. General Wesley Clark, thank you 
</doc>