<video_id>aCugwURWg7Q</video_id>
<video_title>What might be giving Israel pause before incursion? Expert lays out possible factors</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\What might be giving Israel pause before incursion Expert lays out possible factors.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231022</publish_date>

<doc>
A spokesman for the Israeli Defense Forces. The top spokesperson says that it will start firing more airstrikes starting from today and that a ground invasion will begin once the military conditions are optimal. Well, joining me now is the former State Department negotiator for the Middle East, Aaron David Miller, along with former Department of Homeland Security official Juliette Kayyem. And thanks very much to you both. Let me just start, Aaron, with you. We know that Israel has been ready to go for days at the military, has been ready a state of incredible readiness. And when they they now are giving 24 hour leaves, 2 to 2 soldiers. We've heard they come in, they come out. I mean, they are ready. And yet they have not yet gone. What do you think is giving the pause? Well, first of all, Aaron, thanks for having me. A lot of factors. I think number one, there's weather. Number two, there's Israeli indecision about the breadth and depth that precisely how they're going to do this. Number three, the president's visit, I think, may have actually engendered a good bit of thinking on the part of the Israelis with respect to the way they're going to do this. And finally, I think the cruelest dilemma is hostages. Israelis are torn between their commitment not necessarily to avenging the deaths of four, 1400 people, but to preempting the possibility this could ever happen again on one hand and their commitment to redeem the living. I mean, you've been there now. You've seen you've talked to the families, hostage, hostage redemption, retrieving Israeli soldiers and civilians dead or alive from the battlefield is a national priority. So this is the cruelest dilemma of all. Although I think in the end, undermining Hamas and destroying its capacity to govern in Gaza will probably be the greater priority. And yes, and it it appears they've been making that that as clear as they can. And as I said, the families of the hostages, sometimes with anger, sometimes with acceptance, seem to know that there isn't any ambiguity there for them, which only one can imagine that cruel reality for those for those families who are so desperately hoping. Juliet, The thing is, of course, as Israel waits, is ready and waits, there's obviously the military issue of that, which is how long can you be at such a state of readiness with 360,000 people on a border? And wait, know, how long can you stay like, you know, down on the start moon On the start line. Right. There's also the question that as they wait, the frustration builds around the world. The protests that we've seen obviously have been widespread around the region. But one particular one that stood out to me that I keep mentioning because I think the scale just really hits me. 80,000 people protesting out outside the consulate in Adana, Turkey. Adana Turkey is not a place that most people in the United States even heard of. 80,000 people. They had to shut that consulate. So what are the risks here? Yeah. The risks are multiple. I think these are the ones that the President Biden has been trying to highlight to the Israelis based essentially on our lessons in Afghanistan. One is after being attacked, after we were attacked on 911, one is what is the end game? It is one thing to say, you know, for those of us in counterterrorism, we are going to make Hamas not able to govern in Gaza, then what right is is are the Israelis actually anticipating in Gaza? And if not, then then who is right? So that's the first part. The second is the issue of civilian deaths. You know, going back 20 years, we were we were probably not thinking about what civilian deaths meant in Afghanistan. Well, it essentially meant that you were radicalizing populations that might not otherwise have been radicalized. So, you know, obviously, the human rights issues are key. And and the third is, if you don't have an answer to the first two questions, how do you stop a regional conflict if you you know, Biden's success so far, I have to say, is in is what's not happened. Right. I mean, in other words, the Israelis have not gone in yet. There hasn't been. There's there's regional anger and there's lots of criticism. But you haven't had the kind of unrest that one might have anticipated last Saturday. So that's that's the dialog that has to go on it. But but what's the endgame here for Israel? You're not going to govern God's is Gaza. I mean, that's that's their challenge. And but, Erin, it also comes as there's been this, incredible backlash in the United States. It's not just pro-Palestinian rallies. Of course. It's it's horrific. Things like Polo Sandoval was just reporting with the head of a synagogue being stabbed to death outside her home. I mean, there are horrific things happening right? There is there is a backlash that that is that is building. And the reality of it is, is how dangerous is this in the U.S.? Erin. Well, here and that's a that's a question you and I could talk about probably for days. Given the divisiveness, the polarization, hate speech, social media, the behavior of certain American politicians which encourage this, I think is extremely dangerous. Islamophobia and anti-Semitism. And that's those currents clearly are going to be fed by what happened on October 7th and Israel's response in Gaza. No question about that. Our own broken house, frankly, is in some respects as much on display in the president. I think, in his remarks day before yesterday addressed this question. But I think it's absolutely critical that we continue to talk about the importance of tolerance, of mutual understanding. And, of course, as Juliette notes, Department of Homeland Security, the FBI follow these these groups. If, in fact, you're talking about organized responses as closely as possible. Right. Right. And the president did, of course, talk about how horrible both things are Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, that the US must not succumb to those. Thank you both so very much.
</doc>