<video_id>NYhUr70aXZE</video_id>
<video_title>When Hamas attacked, this group of volunteers fought back and won</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\When Hamas attacked, this group of volunteers fought back and won.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231020</publish_date>

<doc>
We succeeded to do what we were training for, I think, for years, but that's not exactly what we were training for. I mean, for years, the fact that we have those squads in every kibbutz is to prevent like a small to to intercept a small group of terrorists may be trying to do something very pinpointed, not a full military assault with numbers, with dozens of terrorists coming to us, with anti-tank anti-tank missiles. Altogether more than 30 destination is that around 35 terrorists were participating in participating in the three assaults on the kibbutz. It all began, of course, around 630 in the morning. You were sleeping? Yeah. You and your wife and me. And my wife. In the second floor, we start with the missile. And the missile. And I said to my wife, I think I hear a missile. She said, Yeah, I hear this also. So we on to the to the first floor, and then we got the missile on the second floor to hit your house. Come from the roof and blow everything. And then. Then the smoke start to go down, open the bomb shelter, run to the second floor with two to see if there is fire or something like this. And I see that there is no fire. Suddenly, I thought we were shooting all around. I said to Avi, It's not normal. Do you have radios? Are you texting? How are you figuring where each other? We have radios, but quite in the beginning, some of them were malfunctioning already. The two just exactly. Everybody was. And what happened? Because it was it wasn't actually even going through. So afterwards, it's ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. So you were really operating alone. Each of you alone in a cell basically is basically is at some points. I had the connection at some points, although most of they didn't have any connection. The radios work. I didn't know they had a battle. They were in the other side of the kibbutz. I couldn't hear them because there were three points. I couldn't hear them. I had no idea they were in a battle until noon, maybe because I wasn't there. Ghaith But you were at the gate. They tried to come in the vehicle gate, and I know and very we saw all the burnt out cars they used to block. You were able to stop that, but they burst through the pedestrian gate. We have we have footage of some of this from the security cameras. They were actually they were actually you know, they were actually shooting anti-tank missiles on the gate so that there's an actual carnage going on outside the gate. People are trying to rush in from the party, people that were just driving there, right there, trying to come in for safety, come in the gate gates close. They cannot see the terrorists and they just go outside and run through the gate. And they're being shot at from short distance, from down the terrace of the gate or trying to come in. These people are rushing. So they basically just yeah, they're it's like picking them off as they run in there are actually taking cover around the gate from the outside and finding them and firing at those civilians. That's running through the gate and stabbing them after they were shot down to make sure they're dead and they are engaging. There is a small army unit, this bomb shelter outside the gate. Some of the party members were hiding there. So you can see a group of their is going and doing their massacre there and they throw the hand grenades into the shelter. Yes. You can see in the movie the security moves. You can see the hand of the they always drove through hand grenades inside. So I went down the solo and starting moving towards towards the main gate, but not in a straight line. I mean, I went through the houses. I got to parking lot number two that it's like on the and there is a hill, a small hill over watching it but from outside and there were two, three guys wearing black. Looking at the road I wasn't sure if this is real people or maybe I don't know what And the moment they turned around they saw AK 47. So that's how you get of 16? Yes, all of it is. We don't use a 47. So when you you know, that's not immediate signal that that that's not us. I show that this group, one of them got hit. The other one, the other two is scattered. Do you have any idea how many obviously, you have M16. Do you have magazines? But just a sense of this went on for hours. How many bullets did you even shoot? I mean, given even idea of what you know, you know, we should have, you know, the hundreds. I want 240 bullets. I knew that I have only a six magazines and I counted every bullet. I knew that A, I cannot shoot like I have a back up or something like that. So I've been shooting every every bullet has its only target. I didn't try just to make them lie. Right. And you had to shoot. You would shoot to kill. I had to shoot to kill. So I know you all know you've seen these. This this is what was found on them. I mean, at least on somebody, right? This is their plans. I mean, of what they were going to do. I just was reading through it. I mean, it's dated October 2022. They were I mean, if that they were planning for a whole year. The details in here. Ellie, I want to ask you about one specific thing. I mean, they knew everything about your except our names, but they put their phone numbers in here. They put, you know, the task boots, Mafiosi raid, Plan B 14. I mean, it's military grade specified. God is great. The Badr Brigades, they label it all but it but at the top they they have, you know, the cameras that are going to be visible. Who is going to come to help you. They knew the tank brigade. But it's this part I wanted to ask you all about. This was exactly what they planned to do inside the kibbutz, the duty of where they were supposed to go, what street numbers, everything. They know where the generator is. It is an adjoining area. And did they did you now that you see this and you saw them, were they trying to execute this plan? Exactly. Exactly. Their plan was actually to engage the security group to open the main gates to allow vehicles in to sabotage the main power and the generator and to make as much casualties for for from from the security team and to allow the second wave to go in. And and the fact that they they know the exact street where to go to, where the generator is and stated it. I mean, it's street by street, street by street. That's exactly where they were executing. Exactly. They they came to the exact points where the gates are. For instance, the point beside my house is the gate is the sound. Okay. It's a small gate disclosed in the Hayden gates In the plan, I actually saw a page which I saw with the symbols there is actually arrows, arrows gate like when you sit here now and you think about it, that they they they didn't just plan and train. I mean this is I mean this is a military I mean this is it said how do you even react to that? This took its dates October 20, 22. It's terrifying because it is a military plan that they combattants the terrorists trained on. It was quite clear they knew exactly what they are doing. They were disciplined. This is a military great planning to make very terrifying, very great information. Learn great. You need inside information. A lot of information. It's not only Google Earth, what we know. We know that the many people from Gaza, also from the West Bank, come to the kibbutz to work and to be in the house. Dozens were inside, inside schools, everything. So there are all these plans, a very specific, very information from inside someone that come to the kibbutz every day. We avoid talking about it, make locations in the and give information to the I mean the faction advances from Street 49, then Street 50, then the Junction Club, all Marvel Cinemas gate. This is I mean, they gave them they gave them a rose inside the kibbutz. You cannot see it from outside. You cannot see it. Right. So they they would have had to have someone had it. Is that doesn't really solve a civil level of the property, but don't give them a film of it. We even right now, I don't know. What do I not know what I can tell? I cannot tell each and every. But they did it and they do it and they do. And so we we tend to think like an army does. It is if we share some information from inside the kibbutz. But you saw outside your gates what happened. So the world understands. Can you can you just talk about what happened, what you saw? I mean, just, you know, massacre in in in every sense of the word massacre, Uh, bloodthirsty. It's not just. Okay, Target killing is down. Continue. No, no, they they butchered the. It was a barbaric in every sense. There's no need for 550 rounds of the guy that's already dead on the floor. Okay? There's no need for it. I can tell you that. That one of the most terrible, I think few minutes in this day was actually when we went out of the kibbutz men. David, families. We went up to the kibbutz at about three, three in the morning, and there was no electricity also on the road, meaning was a complete darkness. And we went outside the gate of our house the minute they told us to drive very fast, only to the north, and we were driving like crazy and from the gates we told immediately the children, You are lying down on the floor. Don't look out of the windows in front of the gate. There were burnt cars that I've you can imagine in sheer darkness. We were driving on the road, which is the driving way through our to our home. I mean, like every day was I was riding like that between dead bodies.
</doc>