<video_id>M1xlEYfPiyk</video_id>
<video_title>White House says it is watching Iranian threat ‘very, very closely’</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\White House says it is watching Iranian threat ‘very, very closely’.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240412</publish_date>

<doc>
CNN has learned that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is meeting with his war cabinet just ahead of what they anticipate could be a potential attack from Iran. It comes after an Israeli airstrike hit the Iranian consulate in Damascus, Syria, last week, killing a dozen Iranian military officials. The Pentagon says the top U.S. general for the Middle East is in Israel right now, meeting with Israeli military officials about the security threats. And the White House tells CNN that officials there are keeping a very close eye on the situation and are in constant communication with Israel. Let's get to the latest reporting from our correspondents, CNN international diplomatic editor Nic Robertson is joining us from Jerusalem. And know Toshiba Trend is over at the Pentagon. Nic, first to you. First of all, what can you tell us about this Israeli war cabinet meeting? How concerned are Israelis right now that Iran could launch an attack, a retaliatory attack against Israel There's a real concern, Wolf, that Iran could do that in the coming 24 or 48 hours. I've talked to various intelligence sources in the region at the moment. They understand, and this is what we're getting from a lot of different sources, that Iran is poised to respond. Now, of course, this could be Iran intentionally dis informing, putting disinformation out there just to create that. The sense of jitters among the Israeli public here among the leadership in Israel about precisely what they'll do, and it's unclear what they'll do. Will they respond in straight back directly to Israel themselves with the use proxies to strike into Israel with a strike, Israeli interests elsewhere in the region? That's a question on people's minds at the moment. But that strength of an show of unity and support between the United States and Israel is on display today at a cancer airbase in the south of Israel. The CENTCOM commander, General Eric Correll, up there with your article and the Israeli defense minister, the deputy IDF chief of staff also there. So this is very much a message of unity and strength and preparedness and this is what we heard from Rear Admiral Daniel Hegarty, the IDF spokesperson, just last night, speaking about how prepared Israeli is for whatever threat comes from Iran. We're highly alert and prepared for a wide range of scenarios and are conducting a situational assessment We're ready in both defense and defense with the various IDF capabilities and strategic partners. I'll take you should give key of Iran a strike coming from Iranian territory will clearly prove that Iranian intentions to escalate the situation in the Middle East and to stop hiding behind its proxies And I think you get a level of the understanding of how this concern is shared jointly between the United States and Israel State Department and the embassy here warning staff not to stray beyond the sort of Tel Aviv area, Jerusalem area, Sheva area, stay in those areas. The concern is it's just not clear what Iran's move is going to be. The sense that it could be soon, Wolf. You know, there's a lot of concern in those embassy, the US embassy and other embassies in Israel as well are issuing warnings to their citizens to stay put basically and worry or start worrying about the potential. Let's hope it doesn't happen about the potential of this war escalating big time between Israel and Iran. Natasha, I want to go to the Pentagon with you for a moment. The top U.S. military commander in the Middle East the commander of the U.S. military's Central Command is in Israel right now. We just heard Nick talk about that. What do we know about his trip? The coordination that's going on between the United States and Israel in anticipation and fear of a formal a full scale Iranian retaliatory response? Well, Wolf, Eric Parrilla the top general for the Middle East, he did say that the U.S. and the Pentagon did say also that the U.S. stands with Israel against any potential attack that Iran might launch against the Israelis. And President Biden made this very clear as well that they are in constant coordination with the Israelis to prepare for the possibility that they do launch some kind of attack directly on Israeli soil. And according to a readout from the Israeli side, General Eric Carol, he did meet with you have got today to discuss readiness for an Iranian attack against the state of Israel, which may lead to regional escalation. So clearly, all sides here are bracing that this escalates into a full on conflict between Iran and Israel. However, U.S. intelligence assessments, as we reported a little bit earlier in the week, they assess that this is more likely to be carried out by Iranian proxy forces in the region rather than from Iran directly. And that is for a number of reasons, but most prominently is because the Iranians don't necessarily want to get involved in a full blown war with Israel, that the US, as they have stated publicly, would then come to Israel's defense with. So the Iranians trying to kind of temper their response, according to our sources. However, it is very possible at this point, according to intelligence assessments, that these Iranian proxies carry out attacks against Israeli assets in the region. And so all sides kind of bracing for that and importantly, how Israel is going to respond, because that is also going to inform just how much this conflict escalates Wolf. So, Natasha, just to be precise, if Hezbollah, an Iranian proxy in southern Lebanon, starts launching rockets and missiles, bombs towards Haifa, Tel Aviv, elsewhere in Israel, the Israelis presumably would respond big time against Hezbollah in southern Lebanon and try to destroy their capability, but it wouldn't necessarily attack directly Iranian targets in Iran. Is that the U.S. understanding as well? Well, it's not clear just whether the U.S. would characterize an attack by an Iranian proxy against Israel as an attack by Iran itself. The U.S. has made very clear, of course, that the proxies are only able to function and really survive because of Iranian support for them. But at the same time, it would definitely be a layer removed from Iran itself. If the proxies were the ones carrying out these attacks. However, Israel has said that they are going to respond forcibly to whatever kind of attack they are faced with by Iran or its proxies. And so it just remains to be seen how exactly this is going to play out are very important, very, very worrisome developments unfolding right now. Natasha, thank you. Nic, thanks to you as well. I want to bring in CNN military analyst, retired U.S. Army Lieutenant General Mark Hertling. General, thanks so much for joining us. As you know, officials are telling CNN they expect Iran will respond imminently, key word imminently. Do you think Iran is likely to strike Israel directly or could that happen through a proxy like Hezbollah? For example, in Lebanon? Everyone's asking that question, Wolf. And what I'd say is General Chiarelli is there because he's looking at what is the most dangerous course of action that Iran will take. And what's the most likely? The most dangerous is a strike by Iran inside of Israel, because that could certainly cause an inflection point and expand this war. The most likely is all of your reporters, Natasha just said, is likely an attack by any number of proxy groups, whether it's Hezbollah in Lebanon or any of the PMF forces in Iraq or Syria or in the area. So that's what General Khairallah and probably he has some of his intelligence officers with them as well as some of his operators so that they can react with naval and air forces from the U.S. in case anything does happen, because the key is deterring any further expansion of this regional conflict. The Israeli strike on that Iranian consulate building in Damascus was, what, about a week or so ago? Why do you think Iran has not waited this long to respond? They immediately issued warnings that they were going to respond, but they haven't yet Well, part of it is the messaging that Iran often uses and they're concerned about attacking inside of Israel because truthfully, Wolf, as you know, Israel force is pretty extensive and pretty confident they can certainly go after Iranian forces if they do these kind of things. So I think Iran is trying to get their proxies together to determine what would be the best and most effective attacks by their proxies and potentially themselves without being deterred or countered by any Israeli forces. So, again, that's why everyone is on the edge to see which kind of force Iran will use and how they will use it.
</doc>