<video_id>IWLNF_s6xkM</video_id>
<video_title>Why some ultra-Orthodox Jews are enlisting in the IDF</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Why some ultra-Orthodox Jews are enlisting in the IDF.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231030</publish_date>

<doc>
The Hamas attacks have caused a significant shift here in Israel among many and the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community. Traditionally, they refuse to sign up for military service, which is mandatory for most men and women in Israel after their 18th birthday. But that's changing. After the October 7th Hamas attack that killed 1400 men, women and children. A limitation they want to see made about. Moti. Lightner reads the Torah at least an hour every day. Decision on his family as one of the 1.2 million ultra-Orthodox Jews or Hassidim who live here in Israel for decades. Many in his community have fought against Israel's mandatory military service for every Jewish Israeli man and woman. As soon as they turn 18. This year, the ultra-Orthodox tried to get a law passed to exempt them from having to enlist. A major source of friction in Israeli society. Then October 7th happened. Have you ever fired a weapon and picked up a weapon before? No. I never heard the gun. Something like this. That is about to change in. The few days I will go to the Israeli army. Leitner enlisted after the murderous attack by Hamas on men, women and children in Israel. That killed 12 as Israel then. It completely shook us, Broke all conceptions, he says. We thought we had the privilege to stand at the side and not be part of. And now we realize it's just not sustainable. He says most of the ultra-Orthodox here believe their jobs are to keep the Jewish religion alive and well, spending their days studying the Torah. But often because the Israeli military reported between 2019 and 2021, only about 1200 or so ultra-Orthodox Jews were conscripted annually. That's out of 12,000 potential applicants. Why did the Hassidim, the ultra-Orthodox, not want to serve in the Army? It was. Silly. The ultra-Orthodox people in Israel have an ethos, according to which studying Torah gives the nation a metaphysical layer of defense, he says. So if it's my home issue, a lot of them are not. But he says he cannot see how that is enough now. And he says he knows many other Hassidim feel the same. It's part of the same. I personally sat in my living room and just cried for a day. We can't just go on with our daily lives. We said, never again. After the Holocaust. And if we want to be able to say that again to next generations and promise our children a sustainable future, we have to solve this issue. In Hebrew, this sign says, Together we will win. It's very rare to see this kind of nationalistic language in ultra-Orthodox neighborhoods like this one in Israel. You're also seeing a lot of Israeli flags plastered all over the place. That just doesn't really happen during normal times. It gives you some sense that opinions among the ultra-Orthodox have changed in a bit. Infanti, writing his wife's opinion, has certainly changed, but she does worry about one thing. I worry more if we don't know how to hold a weapon. And I also want to know how do I want a license for a gun? Also, there is a role. You know, we are not in Switzerland. There is one more difficult thing he has to do with his family before he goes to serve. Tell his children Yehuda. Elizabeth and Abigail. Nine, seven and six years old. They play oblivious to the changes they're about to experience at home due to war. Now, Moti Lightner is not the only member of his family that is going to go enlist. He has enlisted and so has his twin brother who lives in California. His twin brother is leaving there to come to Israel. They hope to go into the armed forces together.
</doc>