<video_id>SR_EAWjPUM0</video_id>
<video_title>Woman recalls being told her sister was killed by Hamas at Nova Festival</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\Woman recalls being told her sister was killed by Hamas at Nova Festival.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231021</publish_date>

<doc>
We're learning much more now about the lives lost in those brutal Hamas attacks on Israel two weeks ago. Among them, 23, 23 year old Sheera Ayalon. She and a friend were killed by Hamas terrorists at that Nova music festival. Sheera, sister Adaa Ayalon joining us now from Tel Aviv. Eldar, thank you so much for joining us. I wish we were just talking under different circumstances and let me express our deepest condolences to you over your sister's death. First of all, what can you tell us about what happened to her? SESTERO Thank you for having me. Two weeks ago, Sheera and two of her friends went to their Nova music festival and Saturday morning at 7 a.m., she recalled my dad telling him there was a bombing over there, which sadly become a regular thing in here. She told him that she's scared and she's going to wait for the panic to come and come home. But 30 minutes up there, she didn't answer her phone anymore. She was missing for five days. And after five days, we got a message from the army that they recognized her body. Her body lay down in the forest for five days. Apparently literally surrounded the party. The been planning that for a while, apparently. And they just came inside, started to automatically shoot everybody over there stealing the stuff from the bodies. Nothing. After they done over there, they went to the nearest CDs and people came, just broke into houses, steal family babies, kidnap 200 people, 200 people, killing thousands of people. And for the state, while she was missing, I tried to find some information and watch the videos in Telegram. Apparently the Hamas cleared themselves killing people, then upload it into romantic dark. So I watched all the horrible things that they did and we were managed just to locate her phone the first day we saw it in Gaza. So if they kidnap her, but apparently she was murder, they shoot her in the back at around 8 a.m.. It took to a lot of her friends. It was driving the party while I was looking for her and the stories were the same. They said that once the shooting was started and it was a complete chaos, they hide in the forest for hours. They describe it like they are running away from the Nazis. They tried to call for help from help from the army and the police, but nobody came because that there were hundreds of tourists just shooting cars and the streets so nobody can get over there to help them. And apparently there were so many dead bodies over there that it took them like they couldn't get the bodies to the hospital anymore because all of the hospital were full. So they bring the bodies to collect the bodies and bring them to the near armory, which is why they it took them six days to recognize her and bring her through, to bury her. she, like she lay in the forest for six days before we buried her. So said DA. Tell us a little bit about your sister, Shira. What was she like? She just started her life. She was 23. She just came back from India. She was very peaceful and kind. She was about to start university psychology degree and she was very gentle and very, very dedicated. And she had nothing to do with this war. Like, I can even imagine what kind of monster tends to hit innocent kids. Not not soldiers, civilians, innocent civilians. It just came to party and to celebrate life. And we are heartbroken like we were devastated about her. She was so delicate and so peaceful and very nonviolent. She had nothing to do. I don't think that she could have survived the attack. No way that she could have made it. So, so awful. The IDF, as you know, says more than 200 people are being held hostage in Gaza right now. I know your family tracked your sister's phone there thinking she was perhaps one of the hostages. What was it like for your family during this awful, awful time? My parents actually said that they prefer her to be that than to get kidnaped because they know that a terrorist, they abuse the people that kidnap, they abuse the dead bodies. They write the woman over there. So they were hoping for her to be dead on the spot. And yeah, they shut her from the organs, so she was dead on the spot. I guarantee I had hope that maybe she got kidnaped and maybe we can create those those pigs someday. I don't know that it's time that they kidnaped the soldier. It took us five years to find his location, but I have hope that at least we can free those two. Had kids and a lorry and baby. Those people don't deserve and deserve for this. They're probably in a very bad situation, like psychologically and have very bad health situation. I know that most of them been held after they already got shot, so they're dying there in a cell. Some videos of the Hamas. They came like while I was when I was looking for her, I watched hundreds of videos on the mom. And I think the people that they they feel count them little babies in front of them are very old people. And most of them were injured, like very badly injured, like with wound on their legs and in the stomach. I really hope that we can free them as best as we can, because we have we have. And I as a country, we we have responsible for them like we have we have responsibility for them to keep to save them. Adara, I alone. Thank you very much for spending a few moments with us. Our deepest, deepest condolences to you and to your family and the loss of your loving sister. And as we say, the finale of Russia. May her memory be a blessing.
</doc>