<video_id>5K-aUvgP8sE</video_id>
<video_title>‘It wont be Hezbollah alone’: Lebanon’s FM warns against Israeli invasion</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_CNN\‘It wont be Hezbollah alone’ Lebanon’s FM warns against Israeli invasion.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240728</publish_date>

<doc>
Israel's security cabinet now authorizing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as Defense Minister Yoav go on to decide on the country's response to yesterday's deadly rocket attack in the Golan Heights. Already, the Israeli military say they have struck multiple Hezbollah targets inside Lebanon overnight and now the region and the world waits to see whether this will escalate further. With us now, Jeremy Diamond, who's on the scene in the Golan Heights, and Ben Wedeman in the Lebanese capital of Beirut. Dami, let's start first with you. We know the international community is urging restraint on both sides. What are Israeli leaders saying right now? Well, Jessica, there's no question that there is a flurry of diplomatic activity right now trying to de-escalate these tensions, trying to ensure that the Israeli response to what they say was a Hezbollah strike right here behind me on this soccer field will be a limited response. Israeli officials have not indicated yet how limited that response will be, but they have made clear that there will be a response, that there will be a price to pay for this attack that killed 12 children in this community of Majdal Shams. The Israeli security cabinet met this evening once Prime Minister Netanyahu returned to Israel from the United States authorizing him and the defense minister, Yoav Gallant, to try to move forward with a strike at a time and with a scope of their choosing. So remains to be seen how quickly that will actually come together. But right now this is a community that not only is anticipating the possibility of that Israeli response waiting to see what will unfold from the events that have happened here, but it is also very much still a community in mourning. It is just after midnight here in Majdal Shams. And you can see behind me that there are, you know, several dozen teenagers who have come here to just sit together, to speak to to mourn quietly and to take in all that has happened over the course of these last two days. Flowers have now been set up where that crater still stands. Lights have also been put up. This is a very small, tight knit Syrian Druze community and they are definitely all feeling the tremendous impact of what has happened, an attack that has shaken this community to its core and in many ways shattered its very soul. Jessica Hmm. Jeremy Diamond All right, Thanks so much for that reporting. And Ben, this this says the Lebanese government in a tenuous spot. How are they responding? Yes, the Lebanese government is this really underscores, Jessica, just how weak the Lebanese government is in trying to determine the course of events. Hezbollah is has in terms of military strength, has far more firepower than the Lebanese army itself. Now, we spoke today to the caretaker Lebanese foreign minister, Abdullah Abo Habib, who made it clear that the worry of the Lebanese government is that if Israel attacks Lebanon and Hezbollah in particular, that it could easily spiral into a regional war. You know, not because of conviction, but because of any attack on our country. We support Hezbollah as the art, but it's not going to be Hezbollah alone, as I mentioned. Iran's foreign minister said yesterday it will be Hezbollah alone. And you have the houses of the Iraqi militias. You have militias in Syria are not serious, but certainly have got the militias. And, of course, the concern here is that if that happens, life, which at the moment is actually going on very much normally to my right, there is a disco party. It's Sunday evening, but people are enjoying the cool evening temperatures. A little while ago, we heard some very loud bangs rushed out, wondering if this was the much anticipated Israeli attack. No, it was actually fireworks just above our head. Nonetheless, several airlines have either delayed or canceled flights into Beirut in fear of an imminent Israeli attack. And the US embassy today reissued a statement strongly urging U.S. nationals to reconsider travel to Lebanon. Now, I was at the airport today. I arrived in Beirut and what I saw was there was a very long line of people waiting to enter the country. Many of those from the Lebanese diaspora, many of them with American passports Jessica. All right. Ben Wedeman for us live in Beirut tonight. Thank you so much for that reporting. I first want to ask just your reaction to this attack on the Golan Heights and what we've seen from Israel in response so far. I mean, yet another heinous attack by an Iranian proxy. Right. I mean, 12 children and teenagers killed on a soccer field, just barbaric. And yet another the deadliest attack on Israel since October 7th. So it's yet again, I mean, we've seen it's 5000 attacks now from Hezbollah into Israel since October 8th. So this is just an ongoing and these are just ongoing attacks, this one particularly heinous. And so so, Jessica, I think what this shows us is now of Iran and its continued attack on our allies, but also on democracy in the United States. As the foreign minister and one of the foreign ministers recently said from Hezbollah said, Israel is merely a tool, the main war. The real war is with America. And I think that's important context that you bring up, that Hezbollah has been firing rockets into Israel at the northern border for months now, that this has been ongoing, it has been a deep concern, especially from U.S. officials, that this particular region could escalate, that that conflict could escalate. What do you think is the appropriate U.S. response to the current escalation? I think the United States, as it did today, has to continue to work very closely with with Israel and in deciding what's the appropriate response here. So we'll leave it to them to work that through. But the bottom line is, when there is an attack on a nation, an attack on Israel yet again, with, of course, the loss of 12, then 40, more than 40 wounded, you realize that it does merit a response. to work together on that response. But the bigger point here is whether you're talking about the Houthis and their attack on Israel, but also on the United States, on our on our service members, other Iranian backed proxies in Iraq and Syria, continuing to attack the United States and our service members around the world. What you see here is terror, you know, at its worst. And that's really what Hamas and Hezbollah and all and Palestine, Islamic Jihad and others and the Houthis. That's what this is about. It's an attack not just on Israel, but an attack on democracy. Last night, I spoke with the former Israeli prime minister, Naftali Bennett. He told us the following. I'll play this clip. With respect to Lebanon's responsibility for Hezbollah, here's what he said. We are not going to tweezer our way through and look for Hezbollah amid Lebanon. Hezbollah is part of the government. Hezbollah is part of Lebanon. And what Lebanon needs to do tonight is move all of Hezbollah away from the border, all the way up to the river of Litani and stop everything they're doing. That is the only way they can prevent an all out war. And so, Congressman, what is your response to that? Again, kind of helping people understand that Hezbollah operates within Lebanon? There's also a Lebanese government. And the Hezbollah in southern Lebanon, right on the border of Israel. After the attack of October 7th, Israelis pulled back from the border after the attack started from Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. More than 80,000 have been displaced. They haven't been able to go home since October 7th. Right. They've left their homes in the northern part of Israel, right on the border of Lebanon because of the attacks coming in from Hezbollah. And people want to go home. Right. And many of them want to go home. School is starting in a few weeks for the students there in Israel. They haven't. They've been displaced from. And so that's a big issue in Israel right now. How do we get them home? And Hezbollah has not pulled back from from that border. And we see just the attacks going, as I mentioned, have been 5000 of them yesterday, being one of the being the deadliest. But the bottom line is this has been going on nearly every day, rockets being fired from Lebanon, from Hezbollah into Israel.
</doc>