<video_id>rsWjEKYahV4</video_id>
<video_title>Gaza’s Al Shifa: A hospital on the brink | Featured Documentary</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_AJ\Gaza’s Al Shifa A hospital on the brink  Featured Documentary.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20231026</publish_date>

<doc>
[Music] currently hos sit cat he in0 alles that seen been children a lot of them have been like this l one or two parents and unfortunately these kids have a long recy ro in isra are trying force a hean un of course, water and electricity, as you know, the occupation completely cut off our electricity, and water, of course, cut it off. Otherwise, we will lose fuel. I mean, it is very simple. I mean, at any time, within a short time, this fuel will run out, and therefore these devices will explode, as I said. Of course, this will affect life. God forbid, if we do not supply the fuel necessary to run this generator, a real disaster will occur for these patients. This is the only generator that works in the Al-Shifa Medical Complex. There are more than three hospitals inside this complex. Dozens of patients are on artificial respirators. More patients are in the dialysis department.  Of 1000 patients, patients with premature infants in the nursery departments whose weight is less than a kilo [music] grams. Of course, we are suffering in the Al-Shifa Medical Complex, the intensive care departments for newborns and premature infants, as it contains 40 nurseries, but the total number today has reached 65 cases. There is a reduction in the number of cases. We  We suffer from a lack of basic medications [music]. Perhaps in a day or two, all the medications in the department may be exhausted. Until now, we are dealing with cases with the available capabilities, especially artificial respiration connectors, meaning we may use them several times, and they are supposed to be used only once. This, of course, increases the burden on the staff.  Medical and exposes cases to bacterial infection. Most cases in the nursery. The therapeutic protocols depend on electrical current, and of course, because most of them depend on artificial respiration. In the event of a power outage, a catastrophe will occur within five minutes, and all cases on artificial respiration Tech Uncle [music] The occupation has prevented the entry of any humanitarian aid, including of course medicines in medicines. It is also true that there are many medicines, so you have this hypochondria.  If you see that we have a very low amount of hemocyanin, this is also what the appliances rely on to operate. [Music] And work means that my laundry is coming again. I have to come. At the very least, I sit for an hour or two to find someone who has transportation. He has cars. You don't know. The road is all destroyed and the cars. She has a bottle, or she doesn't have transportation, and you want to get a request. I don't have enough money because I'm tired and where am I from now? I've washed myself four times, and we're in the middle of the night. I can't go and run. They're coming to me, and then the treatment is less, the calcium is less, the solutions are less, the barabi is less came.  When I was washing my car on Sunday and Wednesday, I came in the morning because of the many beatings that our bride had. I swear we were afraid and came. I was with the people. Our home was far from you. There was no home for us. Our car [Music] The hospital was embarrassed. I was very tired. We had no mercy, nor a car, nor the pilot. It was all beating. [Music]  I mean, tomorrow today this will be over. We may be presented for testimony. Okay, by God, I have a lot of fear. He is the one who stops the sessions because our body will become toxins. We will die. With the displacement of our esteemed citizens to the complex, electricity consumption has become very, very high. We cannot provide it.  The amount of amps required for this complex, of course, the displaced are dear citizens dear to our hearts. They are honorable citizens. As a result of the barbaric bombing, they left and took refuge in the Shifa Medical Complex. Of course, the consumption is very high. That is, of course, the citizens need food and water. They need to shower. They need Zabra We left our security behind. What do you mean by three shelters? We went from Ezbat Abd Rabo to the mountains of the country. The army told us to go down to the mountains of the country and we heard our house was on the mountains of the country. They beat us up in the middle of the market. There is no safe place. We went down to Al-Jalaa. We said, “I mean, there will be a safe place.” They beat us 16. Without prior notice, without communication, from six floors down, another three floors down, and there is no safe place. This safe place, after God, is the cure. We want to go astray. [Music] I saw the beatings. We went out barefoot as we and the children were, dragging for an hour and a half as we walked from the Shurafa roundabout to the evacuation and recovery.  We are men and women who are not displaced when we are children. Someone who is one year old and someone who is less than a year old is two years old. A whole lot of years among them is a group of people. We are like the children of girls. We are all homeless here. By God, we did not take anything to go to the bathroom. We went to bed with a six-month-old boy. By God, we did not take any food, milk, or anything.  Onions and nothing We came out as we are and we cursed everything because of the bear that [music] is upon us. They are all victims. They are all women. They are all children. What did they do? What did they do? We have lack of faili we operate without we one wees recovery we have have  Save liv unfor of our hit cases It has about 20 20 apartments, equivalent to about 250 people, all of them women, children, and the elderly. We are like us, and you have the second square. Our neighbors, may God take revenge on them. No, it is still good, it is still good. Oh, the soft ones, and we have about five.  Witnesses of Manar Al-Mas, I found it, and what, my love, and what is under rubble [music] I chose healing because there are more people and there is safety. Some people feel safe. They are afraid. They said, “Come out, show us where we want to go.” I mean, we want to fly. We came in the mouth. I mean, he has a house that is missing and you will find all the people.  They go out to scare people by knocking on a house and they started to live next to her. She is the one who is worried about people making her come. People are forming up, coming together, hitting each other, frightening each other. In Tunisia, people are together. Ethnic cleansing. I mean, we are not merciful to anyone. My father. Ok, what do we want to do? Kip there  A significant decrease in all hospitals in the Gaza Strip as a result of the large number of victims coming from every place that is targeted in the Gaza Strip, in addition to the increase in the number of martyrs in hospitals. There has become a large crowding in the morgues. We, residents of eastern Gaza, eastern Gaza, Al-Tuffah, I mean, we thought he was gone.  The security of the area will be in Al-Nusrat. We said, “Maybe the center will be safe.” This is what happened. There are approximately more than 18 martyrs, and there are missing people, and there are also under the rubble. Yesterday, we did not find a place in the refrigerators. We did not find a place in the refrigerators, and all night long they were on the ground. Ice refrigerators were recorded.  Karim is one of the ice cream factories to accommodate the huge numbers of martyrs that come to the hospital daily, and with these refrigerators as well, the numbers exceed the capacity of all the main and reserve refrigerators, and approximately 20 to 30 corpses remain in the tents daily, in excess of the metaphorical capacity of these refrigerators [Laughter] [Music]  There are enormous, sacred objects inside these refrigerators. Here are bodies that have not been identified since the first day. The letter is truly horrific. These bodies have not been identified. These bodies are unknown bodies that need to be buried in a special way. Gaza Strip is entering a massive humanitarian catastrophe. The Gaza Strip is in a catastrophe.  The war continues in this way. We will not be able to praise the We hope so. We hope that we are as it is. Our message is neutral, its goal is to serve humanity. That we are neutralized from the bombing and from the occupation. There is no assassination. He does not deviate. He harms us and kills us. He does not deviate. He allows us to practice our humanitarian work, as long as it is not public.  Harassment, not targeting. We arrived at the place where there was a call for help, and we were not able to take the wounded. When we were bombed, we were evacuated. We wanted to withdraw to a safe place. On the way to withdraw, on Salah al-Din Street, or close to Salah al-Din Street, I heard the sound of two people dawning after each other. I looked in the mirror.  I saw that my colleague's car was the one that had been hit, so I quickly realized the situation and called someone from the ambulance I was in. He chased me with a missile, and after that, there was also a missile on the asphalt in front of me, and a missile also hit the third car, and it came back, also hitting another car, a missile, which means a total of six missiles, so we were not left until I was sure.  He killed us all. This is the detail of the event that happened to him. Unfortunately, it means we were not able to take the injured and examine them. Praise be to God, the Lord gener small generat for opera and then here patients are in the corridors on the floors in the emergency department we run  out of external fixators to stabilize the fractures with pins and rods to wasle just for us got with regards to medical out everything we r out ofn dressings burns constitute ma part of the wounded it seems the weapon that isun out grave
</doc>