<video_id>lKaf0PssD48</video_id>
<video_title>Reporting under genocide: Six months in Gaza | The Listening Post</video_title>
<thumbnail_path>data/en_AJ\Reporting under genocide Six months in Gaza  The Listening Post.jpg</thumbnail_path>
<publish_date>20240406</publish_date>

<doc>
These were for two shekels. He said, “For two shekels, these were for half a shekel. They are now for two shekels.” Peace be upon you. Peace be upon you. Of course, these. I found out. What have these been patient from this day to the morning or the night? It depends here. And the lenience of these people was with them in my area. And these countries were confused. I mean, I was born with them and will always be with them. Here, I live among them and I live with them. I live everything with them. What should I do for Hajj? What is the alternative? I am very tired and I am unable. Okay. Insulin needles are a substitute for this. Insulin, it is just a mosquito. I mean, I want to try to get around, but there is no problem. Come on, sir. May God relieve you. May God give you good health, naturally.  My work is that I am originally a photojournalist, but during my coverage of the war on Gaza I became a photographer, reporter, producer, and editor. Where is the peace? How are you? What is your news? How are things? Praise be to God. It is hard. By God, it is fine. How are you? May God bless our uncle with longevity during the liberation war. May God give you good health. May God give you good news.  They say Musab, oh above or below, there is nothing in the field that will be beautiful. I thank God for everything. God willing, you need something. May God bless you. Come on, peace, peace. This war is what we expected to the degree. This is the extent of the destruction that we are now experiencing, and the scale of the massacres, frankly, we did not expect.  Peace be upon you, where is anyone? What's your news? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, and come, by God, this house is standing. In the sense that we are at risk and sitting in it, it means that the damage is total. It is four floors. The damage is completely complete, but it is standing and supported by the neighbors' floor. A camp. We are close together, so it is standing.  This means that, as you can see, the main columns and the extensions of the house, all of them along with the bases, are all destroyed. With every strike, with any rain, with any such-and-such, the house shakes with such-and-such a tower, but there is no shelter. I mean, there is no shelter. We are like the people and there are no possibilities for us to work.  Anything, so we came back to the bombed house. I mean, despite the danger. [Music] I mean, all the coverage from the beginning of the war until this day was on this phone. Of course, all the massacres were reported on this phone. All the crimes the occupation committed against the people, against the citizens in the northern Gaza Strip, are new to me.  The same place where we are now, shrapnel is falling on us heavily in this place now. A new raid is next to us on a house. [ Applause] A new one, Oh God. [Music] By God, of course, in the vicinity of Al-Shifa Hospital. I am sitting here in the street, trying to go on the internet to complete my cover. I mean, you will find me on the phone.  A building will be blocked by a phone. We will go to another place that will be blocked by a phone. Of course, every day the weather will be turned off. Such and such will be turned off. I mean, every day, I turn off the SIM cards every day. I may want five SIM cards for the Internet, but so that the coverage continues, I receive calls from the Israeli occupation army every day. Every day I receive no calls.  I did not respond at all. In the end, I received messages on WhatsApp as well. I did not respond to them. In the end, I received audio recordings from the intelligence officer, saying, Anas Al-Sharif, leave the coverage in northern Gaza and head to the south. Otherwise, you will be war will end, the war will not end. The war will not end.  The war will end [music] [applause] up1 days i have been daily reporting if i wasn't like producing pages doing reps i have been tweeting house and of inri came out i saw a girl herin maybe she a old not there a lot of stories people are trapped under the people till people who can't people arr from from the nor sou i see cing i remember my unle every time i see wife cing i remember my friends who her husband i would sit  to report and i would sit to cry like lally s because i wouldn't have any words to describe what i am my voice has been trembling all the time i don't know if i don't have the right vocabulary i wish i had  more words to describe what was going biggest problem I always face, especially in a room, meaning the emergency department, is that it is there, or it is coming. For example, I want to cover a story, or I want to do anything, and either someone I know will be injured, or someone’s family, for example, all martyrs will be killed.  I am unable to differentiate between my feelings, my work, and me. What do I do? How can I help them? Ok, how can I finish my report? This is the hospital. I mean, we almost moved to it and slept in it, and this section means almost all of them testified to their wounds, and many testified to crimes committed by the occupation. Every time I leave this section, my heart hurts a lot.  Because I'm always afraid to see someone I know or someone I love nothing like you have you can't have because you guarantee alive you be this is where we The dreams I dream at night are true, but they contain black and gray, which is the color of rubble, and if  Adding a new color to the people I see in dreams to my house, even if it is only red, the color of blood. Why am I upset? What should I say? I have a four-year-old son. We were displaced from our home in the northwest of Gaza City. We moved until we reached the south of the Strip in the city of Rafah about seven or eight times. At least I go out to the field and I expect to be injured, I expect to be martyred, and I have protected my child a lot. I mean, maybe my family doesn’t want to hear this saying, but sometimes I talk to him clearly and frankly, what if we die, what if something happens to us that makes us sick, what if one of our limbs is cut off. I mean, even  I talk to my son, who is four years old, on this basis. I mean, Mama, it is possible for me to go to work any day and not come back. You want to stay with Tita. I mean, I am trying to prepare these conditions for him so that he does not feel the shock of almost months of genocide in the Gaza Strip. We produced nearly more than 100 stories for Al Jazeera. My husband, photographer Anas Abu Dayh and I. This is an opportunity perhaps to thank Anas for all his efforts in his work during covering the war. More than 100 stories. More than 100 pains. More than 100 days. I cried in front of the characters. All the characters are touching. All the stories are touching.  We are not accustomed to the scene, and we do not want to become accustomed to the scene. There is no tragic story left that has not been released to the world. The world has not known it. Watch us in the live broadcast. Watch us in the produced stories. Watch us in the press articles. Watch us in the reports, in the pictures, and in the video clips. Palestine, journalists in Palestine, or activists on social media sites.  They have never stopped, and they will not stop for a moment, broadcasting this tragedy. What does the world want more than that to are accustomed to telling people’s stories, but we are not accustomed to anyone listening to our story, both of us, in many details that we did not tell. It is true, honestly, the North is still the North. There is no life in the North. There is hunger in which we are. Throw in hunger.  I mean, I documented everything, from the massacres, from the destruction, from what is this, from the injured, from the body parts. I may not have been affected as much as I was affected. Now I am in the stage of hunger that we are in. Because I am living like the people who live like you, like the people. You now need to eat so that you can continue the coverage. You can stop.  On your body, you can support yourself. There is no food while you are at work. You are thinking about what you want to provide for your family. Well, there is nothing for them to provide for. Of course, even other than my suffering with the people, the people I am photographing live with with a pen. With them, their cries in hunger are harder than their cries in massacres and destruction, I mean.  They were patient with the massacres and destruction, but they were not patient with the hunger. Now I document daily cases of loyalty. Now, people are beginning to suffer from hunger. Frankly, the war is all difficulties and all of them are challenges. I mean, all of them are the paddles of work and continuity, but in some of the situations that were very difficult, I mean, I was covering the events in the Jabalia camp.  The occupation forces advanced from the western areas of the camp and arrested a large number of displaced people in the agency’s schools after half an hour. I mean, I am following the coverage and this report is a broadcast. The nephew of the martyr Musab came to me, and he informed me that they had bombed our house. I went directly that day, meaning to look for my father, but I was unable to do so.  The market area and the schools are the neighbors and people bring my father to me in a cart. The Israeli army targeted the home of Al-Jazeera channel journalist Anas Al-Sharif in Jabaliya, which led to the martyrdom of his parents. As soon as the burial ceremony ended, I went out on the channel to Al-Jazeera channel and reported the event that is the most difficult event for me. I had the loss of my father and the loss of...  My family's home revealed about two weeks ago that it had received threats from Israeli officers to stop covering the Israeli war on the Gaza Strip. Where are you, Dad? Say hello. So I decided to stay and not leave at all from the north of the Gaza Strip. Thus, my family did not leave Jabalia camp for a single day. I stayed in Jabalia camp and did not betray, and I continued.  In the coverage, what motivated me is that I did not leave, as I said, the honesty that was in my heart was to convey the suffering of my people in the northern Gaza Strip &rlm;that was the last time i s home and then i was separated from my family and my husband and then i didn’t even  have time to take any of my belongings so reporting on this genocide while you're living it means you're also being displaced you're also starving you lose your friends you lose your family mers you lose your cousins i ls so far and  more than friends and all of the st are not something that won come back again so living st everything and trying to be objective on the camera is very hard you want to rep wanted family you want search search some every my  for 151 days of genocide that's a great accomplishment yeah for the first time foreigners were not allowed to enter the castle stp so that's why the world didn't have any other option than the palestinians and people were amazed of what we are producing as palestinians they  're amazed that there are palestinians speak in english they were amazed that palestinians are good editors but yeah we are here we exist &rlm;we dreamers we hard working people we are human beings under genocide we resisting this genocide and we did not choose this we were forced  to live this and to report about this yes we're brave but we're brave because we really love palestine and we love gaza It's over, it's over, it's over, but there's noisy noise for 24 hours [Music] What was the first place of displacement that you went to from the north?  The sector to the center of the sector, specifically in the first stage of displacement. We received some friends in a very welcoming manner. I mean, we sat for about an hour. After this hour, I took out the computer. My husband and I wanted to know what we would do in the coming period. They had some other displaced relatives of these displaced people when they learned that we were Journalists told the owners of the house that they are afraid of us. They are afraid of direct targeting of journalists. This prompted my friend to apologize to me, out of concern for the safety of about 50 other displaced people in the house, thinking that Israel could be targeted at any time because we are present among them. People were afraid, afraid that people, specifically journalists, would be targeted. Al Jazeera, while I am here, I fully appreciate people's fear. I have not been upset at all, professionally, morally, or humanely. I have never thought about giving up my work as a journalist. Quite the opposite. Every day, I go to work. Every day, my story reaches millions, or the stories of people that are heading toward it reach millions. This is motivation and motivation.  As for me, to continue more and more, I have the opportunity to tell the story of these people, and the opportunity is very large. Why should I stop? Am I afraid of death? Death in this country does not know a journalist from a civilian, from an engineer, from a doctor from a doctor, from a professor. It makes no difference at all. If it were destined to die, death would come to me.  You were a journalist or you were a housewife, so I had to continue and Sawa. I will never stop working martyred in the war. This matter is in your hands. It is up to you. Stop covering it. You have become a direct target for journalists. I am calling 130. The occupation is trying to stop it.  The sound is muted, we do not transmit the picture. No, we want to continue the message after our fellow journalists. Until now, the colleagues are continuing, meaning we are continuing the coverage. They have not stopped. Whether in northern Gaza, in Gaza City, in Khan Yunis, in Deir al- Balah, in Rafah, they have not stopped for a single moment, and this is in your hands. It is not just us reporting.  The information is that just because we are transmitting information, we are not part of the suffering of the people, we are part of the people, and we are the suffering that the people are experiencing, whether from hunger, from bombing, or from massacres. We are living it, we and our families. Therefore, when we convey the suffering of the people, we are conveying our suffering, we are conveying our situation, we are conveying their suffering, hunger.  We are dying of hunger. We were and still are yearning to convey what we are experiencing. The suffering that we are experiencing. [Music] We are experiencing. Every day I take pictures as if it were the first day. All the people who lived in the tents had many beautiful homes. They were all dear and generous people, and their life was very beautiful. In Gaza today, most of us live.  In tents, people outside might think of us as beggars or think that the Palestinians have been accustomed to the tent since the 1940s and are accustomed to displacement, but no, the emigration and catastrophes of 2023 are all details that kill us daily, and every day we think about when we will
</doc>